of speculative metaphysics as justifications of given social hierarchies is a paradigmatic form of this confusion. yet it is a confusion from which thinking can recover in so far as it is self-reflective and self- critical the categories that cause the confusi on are also its solution in so far as they can be transformed in response to new content generated by social struggles against hierarchical institutions and practices. the historical development of critical social philosophy that this chapter will chart is driven by this dialectic between social change and philosophical self-reflection. originally exclusive conceptualizations of human nature are expanded in response to changed experiences of those human beings initially denied their human potentiality by oppressive social hierarchies. for example, with the notable exception of plato women were, until the twentieth century, normally conceptualized as naturally passive, emotional, dependent upon men, and incapable of self-determination. this conceptualization of women justified their subordinate status in different social organization. the situation was challenged by a series of struggles through which the equal human potential of women for self-determination was vindicated. these struggles changed the way in which women were experienced if women organized and demanded their rights it could no longer plau sibly be maintained that they were essentially incapable of self-determina tion. the idea of the human good had, as a consequence, to be expanded to include wo men. in other words, the implicit liberatory content of the idea of an essential se lf-determining capability emerges out of exclusionary restrictions of the concept in response to changed experiences catalyzed by changing social struggles and relations. th e conceptual foundation of critical social philosophy is complete once all naturalistic id eas of necessary inferiority are supplanted by an understanding of subordination and oppr ession that locates its causes in the principles that