unesco eolss sample chaptersphilosophy and world problems vol . iii philosophy, human nature, and society - jeff noonan encyclopedia of life support systems (eolss) philosophy, human nature, and society jeff noonan department of philosophy , university of windsor, windsor, ontario, canada keywords : metaphysical, human nature, self-det ermination, critical social philosophy, life-grounded contents 1. introduction 2. the divine grounds of social hierarchy: greek metaphysics 3. medieval christian metaphysics and moral philosophy: aquinas 4. divine indifference and human power: spinoza 5. social freedom as a historical project: kant, hegel, marx 6. the unifying principle of critical social philosophy glossary bibliography biographical sketch summary the chapter traces the development of criti cal social philosophy out of the speculative metaphysical tradition. it argues that left on their own, metaphysical concepts trap human thinking in conceptual circles that are blind to the needs and capabilities of people who find themselves at the bottom of social hierarchies. these concepts, however, are open to transformation in respons e to social struggles against oppressive hierarchies. critical social philosophy emer ges out of this dialectical interaction between metaphysical concepts and struggles for freedom. the process is complete once contingent institutional structures rather than human nature are understood as the cause of oppressively limited life-activity. 1. introduction western philosophys classical metaphysical aim the comprehension and systematic explication of the principles of universal order and purpose has had contradictory implications for critical social philosophy. on the one hand the assumption that the universe is a cosmos, a knowable rational order combining structure and meaning, promised to disclose objective standards according to which human social organizations could be judged. on the other hand, the con cepts used to judge social organizations were not derived from reflection upon the so cial-organic nature of the humans that constituted the societies, but rather from