unesco eolss sample chaptersphilosophy and world problems vol . iii philosophy, human nature, and society - jeff noonan encyclopedia of life support systems (eolss) - - - to access all the 27 pages of this chapter, visit: [url] bibliography adorno, theodor. (2003). negative dialectics. new york: continuum. an exposition of the methodological basis of critical theo ry, centring on the relationship be tween universal forms of thought and the material particulars these forms try to grasp. aquinas, st. thomas. (1983). the pocket aquinas. new york: basic books. [the core arguments of the essential works of arguably the most important christian philosopher. foucault, michel. (1984). the foucault reader. new york: pantheon books. a selection of the most seminal writings on history, politics, and philosophy. hegel, g.w.f. (1977). phenomenology of spirit. oxford: oxford university pr ess. [hegels dialectical account of the emergence and realization of human self-conscious freedom]. hegel, g.w.f. (1967). philosophy of right. oxford: oxford university pre ss. [hegels theory of the institutional structure of a free state]. hobbes, thomas. (1994). leviathan. indianapolis: hackett. hobbes exposition of the proper method of political philosophy and the defence of absolu te sovereignty he believes follows from it. kant, immanuel. (2003). critique of pure reason. london: palgrave. [kants revol utionary critique of the metaphysical tradition and defence of his transcendental philosophy]. kant, immanuel. (1967). foundations of the metaphysics of morals. new york: macmillan. [the basic principles of kants ethical philosiophy]. kant, immanuel. (1998). critique of practical reason. milwaukee: marquette university press. the methodological and metaphysi cal presupposition of the pratical em ployment of human reason. marx, karl. (1975). collected works, volume 3, 1843-1844. new york: international publishers.[this volume of marxs collected works contains his most important early writings on hegel and alienated labor]. mckeon, richard, ed. (1966). the basic works of aristotle. new york: