lot of the cai tools used for experimental works in this paper were originally developed by yuntao bai. ethan perez and nicholas schiefer helped with lm-generated persona evaluations of rl fine-tuned models in 4.5. a b testing for helpfulness and harmlessness in 4.3 was setup by yuntao bai. writing: this paper was written by sandipan kundu. jared kaplan, yuntao bai, avital balwit, catherine olsson, sren mindermann, ethan perez, saurav kadavath, and zac hatfield-dodds made miscellaneous contributions and suggestions throughout the writing process. model pre-training: model pretraining was led by nicholas joseph and sam mccandlish, with help from tom brown and jared kaplan, and much of anthropics technical staff contributed to the development of our efficient distributed training infrastructure and the underlying machine learning systems. core contributors include tom henighan, scott johnston, sheer el showk, nelson elhage, and ben mann. scott johnston in particular worked on optimizing pretraining for ml efficiency, while sheer el showk, carol chen, and jennifer zhou worked on data. reinforcement learning: the core rl infrastructure was built by andy jones and kamal ndousse in collaboration with shauna kravec and dawn drain. development of the rl infrastructure had been led by sam mccandlish and dario amodei. sampling and evaluation: efficient sampling efforts were led by tom brown, and tom conerly carried out major aspects of the design, implementation and support for the system, with help from zac hatfield- dodds. many members of anthropic worked on our framework for evaluations, including saurav kadavath, nicholas schiefer, nick joseph, tom henighan, amanda askell, jared kaplan, andy jones, ethan perez, scott johnston, and sam mccandlish. saurav kadavath in particular developed the systems for efficient composition of sampling, prompting, and evaluation used for pms, which were one of the primary tools used in this project. jackson kernion and diana jung helped support human