p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 the philosophy of economics this is a comprehensive anthology of works on the philosophy of economics, including classic texts and essays exploring specic branches and schools ofeconomics. other than the classics, most of the selections in the third editionare new, and both the comprehensive introduction and the bibliography havebeen revamped to bring the volume up to date. the volume contains twenty-sixchapters organized into ve parts: (i) classic discussions, (ii) positivist and popperian views, (iii) ideology and normative economics, (iv) branches and schools of economics and their methodological problems, and (v) new direc-tions in economic methodology. it includes crucial historical contributions bygures such as mill, marx, weber, robbins, knight, and veblen, as well asworksbythe leading contemporary gures writing on economic methodology, including ve nobel laureates in economics. daniel m. hausman is herbert a. simon professor in the department of philosophy at the university of wisconsinmadison. he previously taught atthe university of maryland at college park and carnegie mellon university. hisresearch has focused on methodological, metaphysical, and ethical issues at the boundaries between economics and philosophy. in collaboration with michaelmcpherson, he founded the cambridge university press journal economics and philosophy and edited it for its rst ten years. his most important books include capital, prots and prices (1981) the inexact and separate science of economics (1992), causal asymmetries (1998) and, coauthored with michael mcpherson, economic analysis and moral philosophy (1996) and its expanded second edition, economic analysis, moral philosophy and public policy (2006). i

p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 ii

p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 the philosophy of economics ananthology third edition edited by daniel m. hausman university of wisconsinmadison iii

cambridge university press cambridge, new york, melbourne, madrid, cape town, singapore, so paulo cambridge university press the edinburgh building, cambridge cb2 8ru, uk first published in print format isbn-13 978-0-521-88350-4isbn-13 978-0-511-37141-7 cambridge university press 1984, 1994, 2008 2007information on this title: [url] this publication is in copyright. subject to statutory exception and to the provision of relevant collective licensing agreements, no reproduction of any part may take place without the written permission of cambrid ge university press. isbn-10 0-511-37141-1 isbn-10 0-521-88350-4 cambridge university press has no responsibility for the persistence or accuracy of urls for external or third-party internet websites referred to in this publication, and does not guarantee that any content on such websites is, or will remain, accurate or a ppropriate.published in the united states of america by cambridge university press, new york [url] hardbackebook (netlibrary) ebook (netlibrary) hardback

p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 cont ents introd uction page 1 part one. classic discussions 39 1. on the denition and method of political economy 41 john st uart mill 2. objectivity and understanding in economics 59 max w eber 3. the nature and signicance of economic science 73 lionel robbins 4. economics and human action 100 frank knight 5. selected t exts on economics, history, and social science 108 karl marx 6. the limitations of marginal utility 129 thorstein veblen part two. positivist and popperian views 143 7. the methodology of positive economics 145 milton friedman 8. t estability and approximation 179 herbert simon 9. why look under the hood? 183 daniel m. hausman 10. popper and lakatos in economic methodology 188 d.wade hands v

p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 vi contents part three. ideology and normative economics 205 11. science and ideology 207 joseph schumpeter 12. welfare propositions of economics and interpersonal comparisons of utility 222 nicholas kaldor 13. the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 226 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson 14. why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 251 robert h. frank 15. capability and well-being 270 amartya sen part four. branches and schools of economics and their methodological problems 295 16. econometrics as observation: the lucas critique and the nature of econometric inference 297 kevin d .h o o v e r 17. does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 315 kevin d .h o o v e r 18. economics in the laboratory 334 vernon smith 19. neuroeconomics: using neuroscience to make economic predictions 356 colin f. camerer 20. the market as a creative process 378 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg 21. what is the essence of institutional economics? 399 geoffrey m. hodgson part five. new directions in economic methodology 413 22. the rhetoric of this economics 415 deirdre n. mccloskey 23. realism 431 uskali m aki

p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 contents vii 24. what has realism got to do with it? 439 tony lawson 25. feminism and economics 454 julie a. nelson 26. credible worlds: the status of theoretical models in economics 476 robert sugden selected bibliography of books on economic methodology 511 index 521

p1: jzp 9780521883504pre cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:18 viii

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction premises assumed without evidence, or in spit eofit; and conclusions drawn from them so logically, that they must necessarily be erroneous. t h o mas love peacock, crochet castle ever since its eighteenth-century inception, the science of economics has been methodologically controversial. even during the rst half of the nine-teenth century, when economics enjoyed great prestige, there were skeptics like peacock. for economics is a peculiar science. many of its premisesare platitudes such as individuals can rank alternatives or individualschoose what they most prefer. other premises are simplications such as commodities are innitely divisible, or individuals have perfect infor- mation. on such platitudes and simplications, such premises assumedwithout evidence, or in spite of it, economists have erected a mathemat- ically sophistical theoretical edice, whose conclusions, although certainly not necessarily erroneous, are nevertheless often off the mark. y et busi-nesses, unions, and governments employ thousands of economists and relyon them to estimate the consequences of policies. is economics a science orisnt it? this is a complicated question. what does it mean to assert or deny that economics is a science? t o be called a science is, no doubt, an honor.asthe scientic credentials of economists rise, so do consulting fees. but what question is one posing when one asks, is economics a science? is oneinquiring about the goals of economics, about the methods it employs, aboutthe conceptual structure of economic theory, or about whether economicscan be reduced to physics? if economics is a science, is it the same kind of science as are the natural sciences? during the last generation, interest in philosophical questions concern- ing economics has increased enormously. twenty-ve years ago, when i 1

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 2 introd uction was working on the rst edition of this anthology, this interest was already growing, with philosophers, economists, other social scientists, and ordi- nary citizens all showing more curiosity about what sort of an intellectualdiscipline economics is and what sort of credence its claims merit. at thetime, many turned to the literature on m ethodology because of doubts about the value of economics. after the economic successes of the generation fol-lowing world war ii, economic growth stalled in the 1970s, and many cametodoubt that anybody knew how to restore prosperity without rekindling ination. adecade later, at the time of the second edition, things looked brighter for economics, although there were still doubts about how to restore prosperitywithout aggravating budget decits, how to reinstitute markets in state- controlled economies without precipitating economic collapse, and how to alleviate widespread misery in the so-called developing countries. in thatatmosphere, it is not surprising that economists turned to methodologicalreection in the hope of nding some aw in previous economic study or, more positively, some new methodolo gical directive to improve their work. norisitsurprising that ordinary citizens, whose opinions of economists are more inuenced by the state of the economy than by systematic evaluationof economic theories, should wonder whether there might be somethingawrywith the discipline. today, in 2007, in contrast, economists are riding high. although there have been serious economic problems during past fteen years, such asthe international nancial crisis in 1997, continued high unemployment ineurope, and a prolonged and severe recession in japan, nevertheless, there has been signicant economic growth in developed economies, which havegenerally prospered. serious problems remain in the formerly socialist coun-tries, but conditions have stabilized and for the most part improved. and rapid economic growth in the two most populous countries on earth, india and especially china, has transformed the economic landscape. although itis overly optimistic to claim that the central economic problems have beensolved (especially in the light of the disastrous performance of the economiesof many of the poorest countries in the world), such a claim today, unlike ageneration ago, would not strike most people as absurd. while the doubts about the value of economics that helped fuel the inter- est in economic methodology that began in the 1970s have receded, thetheoretical reasons to be interested in economic methodology have onlygrownstronger. in previous editions, i identied three theoretical reasons. first, not only economists but also anthropologists, political scientists, socialpsychologists, and sociologists inuenced by economists have argued that

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 3 the economic approach is the only sensible theoretical approach to the study of human behavior. this provocative claim that economics is themodel that allsocial sciences must follow obviously makes method- ological questions concerning economics more important to other socialscientists. inthe 1970s and 1980s, it was ironic that some economists were mak- ing grandiose claims for the universal validity of the economic approach tohuman behavior at the same time that others had serious qualms about their owndiscipline. as those qualms have faded, so has this irony. there is, how- ever, a second ironical twist, which constitutes the second theoretical reason why interest in the methodology of economics has increased. during thesame period that grand claims have been made for the economic approach tohuman behavior, cognitive psychologists and economists impressed by the workof cognitive psychologists have shown that many of the fundamental claims of modern mainstream economics are refuted by economic experi-mentation. the rapid expansion of experimentation, which is discussed invernon smiths essay (chapter 18)and of behavioral and neuroeconomics, which is discussed in colin f. camerers essay (chapter 19), raise intriguing methodological questions. finally, there are special reasons why philosophers have become more interested in the methodology of economics. contemporary philosophersof science have become convinced that a great deal can be learned abouthow science ought to be done from studying how science actually is done.although most philosophers who are interested in the sciences study thenatural sciences, economics is of particular philosophical interest. notonly does it possess the methodolog ical peculiarities sketched above, but moral philosophers, whether attracted or repelled by the tools provided byeconomists and game theorists, need to come to terms with welfare eco-nomics (which is discussed in part iiiof this anthology). forthese reasons, it is not surprising that there is so much interest in the methodology of economics. at the same time that triumphant economistsare claiming to have found the one true path for all the social sciences,psychologists, behavioral economists, and neuroeconomists are challengingthe basic generalizations of economics and arguing for a different way ofdoing economics. philosophers of science are at the same time turning theirattention to the peculiarities of particular disciplines, such as economics. therenewed interest in economic methodology over the last generation comes after decades during which the subject was largely ignored by philosophers,while the philosophical efforts of economists in many cases prominentones were sporadic and often polemical.

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 4 introd uction this volume aims to assist those interested in the methodology of eco- nomics by providing a comprehensive and up-to-date introduction to thesubject. my hope is that this book will be useful both as a research resourceand as a teaching tool. it provides an introduction to a wide range of method-ological issues and and to a wide range of positions which have been takenwith respect to these issues. unlike a textbook, this anthology also provides some historical perspec- tive. methodological questions co ncerning economics questions about the goals of economics, the ways in which economic claims are established,the concepts of economics and their relation to concepts in the natural sci-ences and so forth are all philosophical questions, and in philosophy itis generally a mistake to ignore the works of the past. past wisdom can-not be encapsulated in a textbook, and original works cannot be consignedtointellectual historians. much of what a philosophical text has to teach lies in its relationship to its intellectual context and in the nuances of itsargumentative turns. there is, i believe, a great deal to be learned abouteconomic methodology from studying directly how intellectual giants likejohn stuart mill or karl marx dealt with the problems. those who wish tothink seriously about the methodology of economics should know its history, too. some introductory material may help the reader to understand the essays reprinted here. at the beginning of each part, i offer a few comments about its contents. the remainder of this general introduction provides generalbackground to make the various essays more accessible. capsule introduc-tions to the philosophy of science, to economic theory, and to the historyand contemporary directions of work on economic methodology follow. an introduction to philosophy of science asscience is one sort of human cognitive enterprise, so philosophy of science is a part of epistemology (the theory of knowledge), although philosophersof science also face questions concerning logic, metaphysics and even ethicsand aesthetics. one can nd discussions of issues in the philosophy of sci-ence in the works of pre-socratic philosophers, but philosophy of scienceas a recognizable subspecialty only emerged during the nineteenth century.important names in the early development of modern philosophy of sci- ence are david hume and immanuel kant in the eighteenth century, andjohn stuart mill and william whewell in the nineteenth century. at the end of the nineteenth century, philosophy of science emerges as a subdis-cipline with monographs mainly by scientists or historians of science such

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 5 as ernst mach, pierre duhem and henri poincar e. in the rst half of the twentieth century, the so-called logical positivists (many of whom also hadbackgrounds in science) dominated thinking about the philosophy of sci-ence, although karl poppers views also were inuential. contemporaryphilosophy of science is a lively area of research and controversy. althoughthere is considerable agreement about fundamentals, the details concerningmatters such as explanation or conrmation are hotly contested. there isno standard doctrine or detailed orthodoxy. the issues with which the philosophy of science has been concerned that are most relevant to economics can be divided into ve groups: 1.goals what are the goals of science and of scientic theorizing? is science primarily a practical activity that aims to discover useful gen-eralizations, or should science seek explanations and truth? 2.explanation what is a scientic explanation? 3.theories what are theories, models, and laws? how are they related to one another? how are they discovered or constructed? 4.testing, induction and demarcation how does one t est and conrm or disconrm scientic theories, models and laws? what are the differ-ences between the attitudes and practices of scientists and those ofmembers of other disciplines? 5. are the answers to these four questions the same for all sciences at all times? can human actions and institutions be studied in the same waythat one studies nature? this grouping of the questions with which philosophers of science have been concerned is intended only to help organize the discussion that follows. i have omitted issues concerning the unobservable postulates of scientictheories, which were of great importance to the logical positivists and theirimmediate successors, because they are less important to economics. contemporary philosophy of science is best understood against the back- ground of positivist and popperian philoso phy of science, which are still inuential among economists. so in discussing the questions listed here, ishall spend some time talking about the positivist and popperian ancestors of contemporary views. the goals of science there are two main schools of thought. scientic realists hold that in addition tohelping people to make accurate predictions, science should alsodiscover new truths about the world and explain phenomena. the goal is truth, andenough evidence justies claims to have found the truth, although realists

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 6 introd uction recognize that the ndings of science are subject to revision and correction with the growth and improvement of science. antirealists may be instrumen- talists ,who regard the goals of science as exclusively practical, or antirealists may instead disagree with realists mainly about whether the unobservables postulated by scientic theories exist, whether claims about them are trueor false, and whether observable evidence can establish claims about unob-servables. notice that instrumentalists do not repudiate theorizing. theyagree with realists that theories are important. but they locate their impor-tance exclusively in their role in helping people to anticipate and controlphenomena. in his inuential essay, the methodology of positive eco-nomics reprinted in this anthology, milton friedman espouses a narrowlyinstrumentalist view of science. whoisright, realists or antirealists? there is no settled opinion among philosophers, and the fortunes of realism and instrumentalism have oscil-lated over the past few decades. 1scientists themselves are divided. realism has a rm foothold in many areas (how many people doubt that dna existsor that it carries a genetic code?), but the problems and peculiarities ofquantum mechanics have led many physicists to a modest view of the goalsof science and to an antirealist view of claims about quantum phenomena.foradiscussion of the relevance of realism versus antirealism to economics, see uskali m akis and t ony lawsons essays in part v. someone who hopes that science can discover new truths about the world through its theorizing need not nd theories valueless unless they are true. ptolemys astronomy, which places the earth in the center of the solar system,was used for navigational purposes for centuries after it was refuted. there isno reason why a realist cannot use ptolemys theory to navigate. the realistwants more from science than such merely useful theories, but that is noreason to throw away something that works. scientic explanationexplanations answer why? questions. they remove puzzlement and pro-vide understanding. often people think of explanations as a way of making unfamiliar phenomena familiar, but in fact explanations often talk of thingsthat are much lessfamiliar than what they seek to explain. what could be more familiar than that water is a liquid at room temperature? certainly notthe explanation physicists give for its liquidity. philosophers disagree about what is central to a scientic explanation. logical positivists and their logical empiricist successors took scienticexplanations to show that the event or regularity to be explained follows

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 7 from a deeper regularity. a scientic explanation shows us that what is to be explained could have been expected to happen. this notion of explana-tion goes back to the greeks, but it receives its best systematic developmentin the twentieth century in essays by carl hempel. 2hempel deve lops two main models of scientic explanation, the deductive-nomological and theinductive-statistical models. the latter, as its name suggests, is concernedwith probabilistic explanations and attempts to extend the basic intuition of the deductive-nomological (d-n) model. inadeductive-nomological explanation, a statement of what is to be explained is deduced from a set of true statements which includes essentially at least one law.schematically, one has: true statements of initial conditions lawsstatement of what is to be explained the line represents a deductive inference. one deduces a description of anevent or regularity from laws and other true statements. it is essential that there be at least one law. t o deduce that this apple is red from the truegeneralization that all apples in bills basket are red and the true statementthat this apple is in bills basket does not explain why the apple is red.accidental generalizations, unlike laws, are not explanatory. the d-n model is an account of deterministic, or nonstatistical expla- nations. if one has only a statistical regularity, then one will not be able todeduce what is to be explained, but one may be able to show that it is highly probable, which is what hempels inductive-statistical model requires. even when limited to nonstatistical explanations, the d-n model faces counterexamples. an argument may satisfy all the conditions of the d-n model without being an explanation. for example, the fact that someonetakes birth control pills regularly does not explain why they do not getpregnant, if the person never has intercourse or is a male. but not gettingpregnant is all the same an implication of the law that those who take birthcontrol pills as directed do not get pregnant. 3one can deduce the height of aagpole from the length of its shadow, the angle of elevation of the sun, and the law that light travels in straight lines, but doing so does not explainthe height of the agpole. a similar deduction does, however, explain thelength of the shadow. 4 what has gone wrong? the intuitive answer is that taking birth control pills has no causal inuence on whether a woman who never has inter-course gets pregnant, and men cannot get pregnant whether or not they

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 8 introd uction take birth control pills. similarly, sunlight and shadow have no signicant causal inuence on the height of agpoles. it seems that explanations ofevents and states of affairs typically cite their causes . 5there are, however, two problems with explanations cite causes as a theory of explanation.first, although most explanations of events and states of affairs are causalexplanations, not all are. second, saying that explanations cite causes is not byitself very informative. without a theory of causation, a causal theory of explanation is empty, and even with a theory of causation, it only scratches the surface to maintain that to explain is to cite a cause. the existence of thesun is causally relevant to the wheat harvest, but it does nothing to explainthe price of wheat. the explanation of human behavior introduces special difculties. most explanations of human action take a simple form. one explains why an agent purchased some stocks or changed jobs by citing relevant beliefs anddesires of the agent. when economists explain behavior in terms of utilityfunctions, they offer explanations of just this kind. this familiar kind of explanation is philosophically problematic. if one attempts to construe such explanations as elliptical or sketchy deductive-nomological explanations, one nds that it is hard to nd any substantialand plausible laws implicit in them. what apparently do the explaining areplatitudes such as people do what they most prefer. some philosophershave argued that generalizations like these are not empirical generaliza-tions at all. they are instead implicit in the very concepts of action andpreference. 6according to these philosophers, explanations of human behav- ior differ decisively from explanations in the natural sciences. in explainingwhy someone did what he or she did, one does not subsume their actionunder some general regularity. instead, one gives the agents reasons . itis true that in explaining an action one gives the agents reasons for performing it. but do explanations in terms of reasons differ fundamentallyfrom explanations in the natural sciences? can they be seen as (roughly)deductive-nomological or as causal? can they be assessed in the same waythat explanations in the natural science are assessed? philosophers disagreeon these questions. most writers on economics have attempted to assimi-late explanations in economics to explanations in the natural sciences. whycannot explanations in terms of reasons also be scientic explanations in termsofcauses? 7butthere is a considerable minority, which includes dis- tinguished economists such as frank knight (chapter 4), who have argued that explanations of actions in terms of the reasons for the actions differ insome fundamental way from ordinary scientic explanations.

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 9 scientic theories and laws most philosophers have argued that science proceeds by the discovery of theories and of laws, but economists are more comfortable talking aboutmodels than about laws and theories. over the last two decades, philosophers have begun to catch up, 8and there is a new philosophical literature that permits a more satisfactory characterization of theorizing in economics. economists do sometimes talk in terms of laws. they speak of the law of demand, says law, the law of one price, and so forth. so let us begin withsome words concerning laws and the role they play in science. the laws ofsciences are not, of course, prescriptive laws dictating how things ought to be. (it is not as if the moon would like to leave its orbit around the earth,but is forbidden to do so by a gravitational edict.) scientic laws are instead(speaking roughly) regularities in nature. but they are not just regularities.consider the generalization, no gold nugget weighs more than 1,000 tons. even if it is true everywhere and for all time, this generalization appears to be merely accidental and of no explanatory value. what then is the differencebetween an accidental regularity and a genuine law? rather than canvas the unsatisfactory answers philosophers have con- sidered, let us step back and ask whether, however the analysis comes out,economics has any genuine laws. consider, for example, the law of demand.itsays, roughly, that when the price of something goes down, people seek to buy more of it, and when the price goes up, people want to buy less. unlikephysical laws such as boyles law, which states that the pressure and volumeof a gas are inversely proportional, the law of demand is asymmetrical: itlinks causes (price changes) to effects (changes in demand). if an increasein demand comes rst, the price will go up rather than down. second, thelawofdemand is (at least when stated this way) not a universal truth. for example, if there is a change in tastes at the same time that the price drops, demand might not increase. so perhaps the concept of a law is not a usefulone for those interested in economic methodology. the issues here are complicated, because of the possibility of subtle refor- mulations of claims such as the law of demand. one might, for example, argue that such laws carry ceteris paribus qualications: other things being equal, price increases lessen demand and price decreases increase demand.inmyownwork, i have defended this idea, which goes back to john stuart mill (the rst selection in this volume). so i do not think that this project is misconceived. according to the deductive-nomological model of explana-tion, economists can use generalizations such as the law of demand to explaineconomic phenomena only if those generalizations are genuinely laws.

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 10 introd uction nevertheless, there is a good deal to be said for adopting an explicitly causal view of explanation such as james woodwards, which does not depend on citing any laws. whether or not the law of demand is truly a law,there are specic domains in which the generalization is nearly always trueand in which one can rely on it to pick out the causes of price changes. the other intellectual constructs emphasized by the logical empiricists, scientic theories, also do not t economics very well. one of the featuresthe positivists took to be crucial to theorizing the postulation of unobserv-able entities and properties to explain observable phenomena is unusualin economics. (even though beliefs and preferences are apparently unob-servable, they are obviously not new postulations of economists.) moreimportantly, when economists talk about theories, they usually talk aboutbranches of economics (such as game theory, or the theory of the rm, orthe theory of monopolistic competition) rather than anything analogoustonewtons theory of gravitation or maxwells theory of electromagnetic radiation. theories in the natural sciences appear to be collections of lawlike state- ments that work together to help describe, predict, and explain phenom-ena in some domain. the logical positivists made the notion of workingtogether precise, by arguing that theories form deductive systems. accord- ing to the positivists, theories are primar ily syntactic objects, whose terms and claims are interpreted by means of correspondence rules. 9let me explain. inuenced as they were by the dramatic breakthroughs in formal logic at the end of the nineteenth and the beginning of the twentieth century, thelogical positivists conceived of deducibility as a formal relationship between sentences, which is independent of the meaning of the sentences. for exam- ple, one can infer the sentence rf r o m the sentence sand rwithout knowing anything about what the sentences so r rassert. logicians explored the possibility of constructing formal languages in which the ambi- guities of ordinary languages would be eliminated. in these formal languages,there would be a sharp separation between questions concerning syntax andsemantic questions concerning meaning and truth. the logical positivists hoped to be able to express scientic theories in formal languages. from the axioms of the theory, all theorems would followpurely formally (just as rf o l lows from sand r). for the theory to have meaning and to tell us about the world, it would still need an interpretation.correspondence rules were supposed to provide that interpretation and to permit theories to be tested. originally, correspondence rules were conceivedof as explicit denitions for each of the theoretical terms, but the positivists

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 11 soon realized that the relationship between theory and observation is more intricate. scientic theories cannot usually be formalized in the way in which the logical positivists hoped, and the p ositivist view of theories does not do justice to the way in which theories are constructed or used. furthermore,the problems of relating theory to observation, in the form in which thepositivists posed them, are intractab le, and problems about characterizing lawlike statements remain. many philosophers of science now settle for alooser informal construal of theories as collections of interpreted lawlikestatements rather than uninterpreted, purely syntactic sentences, which are systematically related to one another. the really pressing philosophical task for those interested in economics is to come up with an understanding of scientic models ,because economic theorizing relies mainly on models. models in the sciences, unlike theories,may be material (like the scale models of airplanes tested in wind tunnels)as well as linguistic; however, like laws and theories, they are representa-tional. unlike laws and some theories, models are manipulated, explored,and modied. although it is sometimes appropriate to ask whether parts ofmodels are true or false, economists more often assess models in terms oftheir fruitfulness or usefulness. one view of models, which i have defended (and which is criticized in the essay by sugden, reprinted as chapter 26), takes them to be of the same logical type as are predicates such as has two legs, or denitions of suchpredicates. 10according to this view, a model of consumer choice among two commodities does not make assertions about the world. it is instead apredicate such as is a two-commodity consumption system or a denitionof such a predicate. of course, economists do make claims about the world.they do so by using models, by asserting that the predicates that models constitute or dene are true or false of systems of things in the world. drastically oversimplifying this view, it maintains that instead of offering theories like all bodies attract one another with a gravitational force, scientists offer models like something is newtonian system if and only ifall bodies in it attract one another with a gravitational force and ..., and that scientists then use such models to make empirical claims such as theuniverse is a newtonian system. given this parody, one might wonder whyserious philosophers defend the predicate view of models. there are two reasons. first, if one hopes to be able to reconstruct the claims of science formally, the predicate view has signicant technical advan-tages. second, the predicate view offers a useful way to schematize the two kinds of achievements involved in constructing a scientic theory. although

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 12 introd uction what ultimately count are the claims that models permit scientists to make about the world, science does not proceed by spotting correlations amongalready known properties of things. an absolutely crucial part of the scien-tic endeavor is the construction of new concepts, of new ways of classifyingphenomena. and much of science is devoted to thinking about these con-cepts, relating them to other concepts and exploring their implications. this kind of endeavor is prominent in economics, where economists oftenexplore the implications of perfect rationalit y,perfect information and per- fect competition, without immediate concerns about empirical applicationor testing. assessment and demarcation most people are empiricists about theory assessment: they believe that the evidence that ultimately leads scientists to accept or to reject claims about the world should be perceptual or observational evidence. according to empiricists, economists should believe that individuals generally prefer morecommodities to fewer, if and only if this claim is borne out by experience. empiricism is not completely uncontroversial. kant argued in his critique of pure reason that there are some synthetic truths about the world such as the axioms of euclidean geometry that can be known ap riorithat is, without specic sensory conrmation. he maintains that these propositions are implied by the very possibility of having any conscious experience of theworld. no specic observations or experiences could ever lead us to believe that such propositions were false. modern physics has not dealt kindly with kants view that the axioms of euclidean geometry are ap rioritruths, but the kantian view that there are synthetic ap rioritruths still has supporters among so-called austrian economists, especially ludwig von mises and his followers. they argue thatthe fundamental postulates of economics are synthetic ap rioritruths. 11i shall not discuss the austrians epistemological views, but the reader shouldbe aware that some methodologists question empiricist views on assessment. despite their obviousness, empiricist views of the assessment of claims about the world encounter serious problems. first, it seems implausible toclaim that denitional truths such as triangles have three angles requiretesting or that our condence in such claims rests on the results of obser- vations. nor do we need experiments to know that a claim such as thissquare is circular is false. the logical positivists responded by distinguishingsynthetic claims claims about the world from analytic or contradictoryclaims whose truth or falsity depend solely on logic and on the meanings ofthe terms in such claims. 12

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 13 even conning oneself to synthetic claims, serious problems remain. as hume argued in the eighteenth century, observation only establishes the truth of singular statements about particular events or about properties of things at particular times and places. on what, then, is our condence in generalizations or in singular statements about instances not yet observedbased? as hume put it: ifabody of like color and consistency with that bread which we have formerly eaten be presented to us, we make no scruple of repeating the experiment and foresee with certainty like nourishment and support. now this is a process of mind or thought of which i would willingly know the foundation.13 inother words, hume is issuing a challenge: show me a good argument whose conclusion is some generalization or some claim about something not observed and whose premises include only reports of sensory experiences.suchan argument cannot be a deductive argument, because such inferences are fallible: the next slice of bread might be fatal. nor will an inductiveargument do, as we have only inductive and thus question-begging groundstobelieve that such arguments are good ones. this is humes problem of induction .itisprimarily a problem concerning how singular claims about unobserved things or generalizations are to besupported orjustied .itisnot mainly a problem about the discovery of generalizations. in my opinion, humes problem of induction is, as stated,insoluble. ifthis problem of induction cannot be solved, there are two options. one is to deny that there are ever good reasons to believe generalizations about theworld, no matter how much purported evidence one has. this is the skeptical conclusion hume drew although he confessed that when he left his study he could not act on it. alternatively, one can criticize humes description ofthe problem. i prefer the latter course. what is wrong with humes problemof induction is humes view of what justication demands. hume wantsaseparate argument for every generalization with only reports of sensory experiences as premises. if instead one relaxes the demands on justication and one permits the premises in justicatory arguments to include all ofour purported scientic knowledge about the world, then one faces thedifcult but not impossible problems of inductive inference that scientistsactually grapple with. observations and experiments play a crucial rolein the expansion and correction of empirical knowledge, but people neednot trace their knowledge claims back to an experiential foundation. 14to borrow a metaphor, learning about the world is like rebuilding a ship whilestaying aoat in it. in learning more about the world, people rely both on

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 14 introd uction observation and on the vast body of knowledge that they think they already have. the ship metaphor is due to otto neurath, who was a member of the vienna circle, the main wellspring of logical positivism. y et the logical pos- itivists did not for the most part endorse such a holistic view of scienticknowledge. instead considerable efforts were made by rudolf carnap andothers to develop an inductive logic, a canon of thought whereby conclu-sions could be established with a certain probability from premises thatincluded only basic logic and mathematics and reports of observations. 15 these efforts were not successful, but carnaps work helped lead to morepromising modern approaches. 16 karl poppers views on induction are more radical. popper recognized in the 1930s that the results of experiments and observations bear on thetruth or falsity of claims about the world only within the context of a body of tentatively accepted beliefs. 17buthethen introduced a further twist. heargued that generalizations such as all copper conducts electricity can be falsied bysingular statements reporting the results of observations, even though they cannot be veried .infact, popper argued that there is no such thing as conrmation! (he says, instead, that scientic generalizationsmay be corroborated, but he maintains that corroboration provides nogrounds to believe that a theory is correct or a reliable basis for prediction.) generalizations remain no more than tentative conjectures, no matter howoften we fail to falsify them. manyhave read popper as suggesting that generalizations can sometimes be conclusively proven to be false on established premises which includeonly reports of observations. the problem of induction is thus solvedbyaccepting half of humes skeptical conclusion: there are never good reasons to believe that universal generalizations are true. what saves us from skepticism and generates scientic progress is the possibility of nding goodreasons to believe that generalizations are false. science proceeds by making bold conjectures and eliminating errors. popper explicitly disavowed this simple interpretation of his position. 18 inhis view, reports of observations are fallible and open to revision. as amatter of convention one accepts them as true in the course of testing a generalization. in doing so, one is taking an unavoidable risk of rejecting thegeneralization, even though it is true. moreover, one can rarely infer the fal-sity of interesting claims in science merely from singular observation reports.forexample, to use observations of choices in the economics laboratory to test game theory, one has to make assumptions concerning what factors

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 15 inuence preferences. in testing a theory, scientists deduce an implication from that theory, conjoined with subsidiary hypotheses and statements of initial conditions. if the implication is not borne out by observation, scien-tists must take risks and decide that the problem lies in the particular theorybeing tested, not in the unavoidable additional premises. inautobiographical comments, popper maintains that what drove him into the philosophy of science was what he calls the problem ofdemarcation: what is the difference between a scientic theory and a the-ory which is not scientic? 19although formulated differently, this was a driving question for the logical positivists, too. they wanted to be able todistinguish scientic theories from meaningless metaphysics and to con-tribute to the further development of science. as stated earlier, the problem of demarcation concerns the distinction between scientic theories and other sorts of theories. but popper is often concerned instead to distinguish thoseattitudes, rules and practices that distinguish a scientic community from other attitudes and practices. what matters is often not the theory, but whatpeople think of it and what they do with it. newtons theory of motioncould become the dogma of some strange sect, while, in contrast, astrol- ogy can be subjected to scientic scrutiny. the more important problem ofdemarcation concerns the difference between the attitudes of scientists andnonscientists, not the difference between scientic theories and other sortsof theories. according to popper, what is special about scientists is that they have acritical attitude. they follow methodological rules directing them to make bold conjectures and then seek out the harshest possible tests of them.these rules require that when the conjectures fail those tests, scientists do notmake excuses. instead they should regard the theories as refuted, and theyshould then propose and scrutinize new conjectures. 20asmany have noted, including thomas kuhn and imre lakatos, it is a good thing that scientists donot follow these rules. 21because theories always face unresolved difculties, these rules demand that they all be rejected. but theories are too importanttothe practice of science to be surrendered until alternatives are available. andalternatives are not easily generated. the questions popper asks may be more important than the answers he argues for. successors such as kuhn and lakatos and a number of sociol-ogists of science have followed popper in attempting to clarify what sortof disciplines the sciences are. y et current investigations of assessment anddemarcation differ not only from the p ositivists efforts, but from poppers as well. as completely opposed as the popperian and positivist approaches

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 16 introd uction were,both conceived of theory assessment in terms of the confrontation of single theories with data. most contemporary philosophers of science reject this way of approaching the problems. instead of thinking about the problems of theory assessment ,they are concerned with the problems of theory comparison andchoice .testing is a many-sided confrontation among alternative theories and data. furthermore, there are many choices to bemade among theories, not just one. a scientist may for example reason-ably believe that theory tis better conrmed than theory t prime,but that t prime offers more interesting research possibilities. although most contemporaryphilosophers of science agree that there are many different problems of the-ory assessment and that one must address them in terms of choices among alternatives, disagreements remain about what conclusions to draw. one view, which many attribute to thomas kuhn, is to question whether theory choices are rationally defensible. in his classic structure of scientic revolutions ,kuhn offers a view of science and of philosophy of science that differed sharply from the logical empiricist orthodoxy at the time he waswriting. with the help of vivid examples from the history of science, kuhn emphasizes how extensive are the constraints on ordinary scientic research.todetermine the magnitude of a particular constant or to solve a detailed theoretical problem takes resources and energy, which scientists will notbe willing to expend unless they are convinced that the general theoreticalframework (paradigm) within which they are working is more or lesscorrect. without such commitments, detailed esoteric research efforts would not be undertaken. although the workaday, perhaps even dogmatic normalscience that results does not aim at discovering novelties, it nevertheless,kuhn argues, uncovers anomalies problems that resist solution within the particular normal scientic tradition. such anomalies can undercut thescientic communitys condence in the accepted paradigm and, given theconstruction of an alternative paradigm, can lead to a scientic revolution. kuhns view of scientic revolutions is especially controversial. he seems toargue that disagreements in scientic revolutions can be so pervasive that no rational choice can be made. 22because scientists in different camps will have distinct views about standards of theory assessment and about how toconceive of the subject matter and practice of the science, consensus can be reached only through nonrational persuasion. according to this irrationalist interpretation of kuhn, the paradigm that triumphs in a scientic revolutionneed not be objectively better than the paradigm it replaced. kuhn disavows such an extreme interpretation of his views, and many historians and most philosophers of science have found such irrationalistconclusions to be unjustied. y et they live on in the work of some sociologists

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 17 of science, who have defended even more extreme views. some go so far as todeny that the phenomena that scientists study have any inuence at all on the views that scientists defend.23 yetinrejecting kuhns apparent irrationalism, one can still recognize the signicance of his contribution to contemporary philosophy of science. notonly did kuhn make philosophers aware of the complexity of scientists com-mitments, but he did as much as anyone to convince philosophers that theo-rizing about science without careful attention to scientic practice was likely tobe misleading. even though few philosophers of science regard themselves as kuhnians, most follow kuhn on these points. although popper and manyof the logical positivists were scientically literate and intensely interested inthe sciences, including particularly physics, contemporary philosophers ofscience tend to address problems in the philosophy of science at a lower levelof abstraction and with greater attention to the details of scientic practice.just as economists can only offer advice to a rm if they have learned what in fact makes rms run well, so philosophers can only offer advice to scientistsif they have learned what in fact makes for good science. and, in my view,there is in general no way to learn about rms or science without studyingrms or scientists. anumber of prominent philosophers of science have developed accounts of theory evaluation that recognize the complexities of scientic work with-out denying the rationality of science. many approaches merit discussion,especially the work of the modern bayesians, but this introduction is notlong enough to discuss them. something must, however, be said about imre lakatoss methodology of scientic research programmes, which had a considerable inuence oneconomic methodology in the 1970s and 1980s. lakatos began his workon the philosophy of science as a follower of popper. although critical ofmany details, including poppers view that scientic honesty demands animmediate readiness to surrender ones theory in the fact of an apparentdisconrmation, lakatos insists that poppers basic point remains valid: ifscientists make empty excuses for their theories when they run into apparentdifculties, then they will never learn from experience. what philosophy ofscience should be concerned with, according to lakatos, are not rules forassessing theories, but rules for modifying and comparing theories. rather than asking, is theory twell or poorly supported by the data? scientists want to know whether a new version of tis an improvement over the old. the central question concerning assessment is whether the proponents oftare making as much progress improving it as are the proponents of com- peting theories.

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 18 introd uction according to lakatos, a modication of a theory is an improvement if it is not ad hoc .modications may be ad hoc in three ways.24ifam odi- cation of a theory has no new testable implications at all, it is empty and unscientic. modications that are not ad hoc in this rst sense are theo- retically progressive. if the testable implications of theoretically progressive modications are not conrmed by observation, then these modicationsare not empirically progressive, and they are thereby ad hoc in the second sense. lakatos maintains that an extended process of theory modicationis progressive overall, if the modicatio ns are uniformly theoretically pro- gressive and intermittently empirically progressive. as scientists revise their theories in the hope of improving them, the changes must always have newtestable implications; and those testable implications must sometimes be borne out by experiment and observat ion. in addition, there must be con- tinuity throughout this history of repeated modication. economists donot make theoretical progress by tacking on unrelated generalizations fromchemistry. adding the generalization that copper conducts electricity to monetary theory results in new testable implications, but such a modica-tion is ad hoc in a third sense. lakatos insists that science is and should be dominated by scientic research programs. these consist of a series of related theories that pos- sesses a hard core, which the negative heuristic insists must be pre-served through all modications of particular theories within the researchprogram. in addition, the research program contains a a positive heuristicthat directs scientists in making modications. particular changes withinaresearch program should be assessed by considering to what extent they are theoretically and empirically progressive and to what extent they are inaccordance with the positive heuristic of the research program. competingresearch programs should be compared by examining their overall progres- siveness. in lakatoss view (in contrast to kuhns), science suffers when asingle research program becomes dominant. lakatoss methodology of scientic research programs has some dubious features. the single-minded emphasis on progress is questionable. the factthat a series of theories t, t prime,t prime primemay be progressing splendidly tells one nothing about whether t prime primets the data well. why should only the novel predictions, the new implications of t prime primeover t prime,matter? lakatoss insistence on a specic hard core, which denes a particular research program is alsotoostrict. the supposed hard core of every research program is always being reformulated and, in various ways, modied. ifone goes to contemporary philosophy of science in search of hard and fast rules for assessing theories in the light of data, one will be disappointed.nonphilosophers may nd this state of affairs discouraging, and they might

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 19 draw skeptical or relativist conclusions. but skepticism and relativism are cold comfort when one needs to decide what to do about crushing poverty or the problems of achieving economic growth without environmental disaster.and, as this brief summary shows, philosophers have learned a great deal about theory assessment, even if that knowledge cannot be codied intodetailed and exceptionless rules. the unit yo fs c i e n c e instudying economics, one not only faces standard problems in the philos- ophy of science, but one also wants to know whether social sciences like eco- nomics should model themselves after natural sciences like physics. humanbeings and their social interactions are different objects of study than areplanets or proteins. should the goals and methods of social theorists be thesame as those of natural scientists? asmentioned at the beginning of this introduction, those who have asked whether the social sciences can be real sciences have been concerned withseveral different questions concerning the structure or concepts of theoriesand explanations in the social sciences and concerning the goals of socialtheorizing. philosophers have argued that in addition to or instead of thepredictive and explanatory goals of the natural sciences, the social sciencesshould aim at providing us with understanding .this issue receives its classic discussion in the selection in this volume by max weber, although frankknight also touches on it. 25 weber and many others argue that the social sciences should provide understanding from the inside, that permits social theorists to empathizewith the agents and to nd what happens understandable. he argues that social theorists inevitably classify social phenomena in terms of variousculturally signicant or meaningful categories, and that explanations mustbe in these terms or they will not tell people what they want to know.this seems to introduce an element of subjectivity into the social sciencesthat is avoidable in the natural sciences. but, provided that social theoristsexplain the phenomena in these meaningful terms, weber has no objection tocausal (indeed deductive-nomological) explanation. y et even here there is adifference in emphasis. weber maintains that however interested theorists may be in regularities, people want to understand particular happeningsin their details and individuality, rather than, as in the natural sciences, asinstances of general regularities. i see this as a difference in emphasis, not asdemanding a different kind of explanation. contemporary philosophers who have been inuenced by weber and bydevelopments in the philosophy of language (especially the work of wittgenstein), have made stronger claims. these philosophers contend that

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 20 introd uction regularities in human behavior are not natural laws, but the result of rules orinstitutions .tounderstand some human action is to discover the rules that guide it. and to understand rules, according to peter winch and others, is the same sort of task as understanding meanings. it is a task requiringinterpretation, not empirical theorizing and testing. winchs views seem torule out applying the methods of the natural sciences to the study of human behavior and institutions, and they have been vigorously contested. 26 human free will suggests additional doubts about the possibility of a social science. one wonders whether, given free will, human behavior isintrinsically unpredictable and thus not subject to any laws. as tempting asthis line of thought may be, it is a mistake. even if there are no deterministic laws of human behavior, there are, in fact, many regularities in human action.of course, if winch and others are right, these regularities differ from lawsof nature, but the regularities exist nevertheless. not only can we predictthe behavior of people we know well, but we often know what strangers willdo. every time we cross the street in front of cars stopped for a red light,westake our lives on such knowledge. whatever one thinks about free will, there are still uniformities in human behavior, which social theorists mayreasonably seek to identify. the mistaken assertion that human free will makes social science impos- sible lies, i believe, behind other arguments for the impossibility of anyscience of society. expectations and be liefs, including beliefs about social theories, inuence behavior. it is thus possible to make both self-fulllingand self-defeating claims about people. these possibilities suggest that there may be paradoxes lurking within the notion of a social science. but the dif-culties are specic and limited rather than fundamental. 27asocial theorist can factor in the reactions of those who become aware of any particulartheory. aseconomists have come increasingly to recognize, human beliefs and expectations, not just the realities about which people have beliefs and expec- tations are crucial to understanding human behavior. for people can, asfrank knight points out, make mistakes or fail to recognize things. as a rst approximation, economists abstract from such difculties. they assume thatpeople have perfect information. byassuming that people believe whatever the facts are, economists can avoid worrying about what people actuallybelieve. once economists go beyond this rst approximation, difculties arise which have no parallel in the natural sciences. for claims about beliefs (anddesires) are, in philosophical jargon, intentional. 28they possess a different logic. from a nonintentional statement such as the united states invaded

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 21 iraq in 2003, and the second premise, the invasion of iraq in 2003 was ahuge mistake, one can infer in 2003, the united states made a huge mistake. but from the same second premise and the intentional statement, president bush wanted the united states to invade iraq in 2003, one cannot deduce president bush wanted the united states to make a huge mistake.the logic of belief, desire and other such intentional terms is in someways subjective. these logical peculiarities and the subsequent need forasubjective treatment of expectations distinguish economics from the natural sciences (with the possible exception of a small part of biology).however,the signicance of the differences is not clear. members of the austrian school (represented by james buchanan and viktor vanberg in chapter 20)argue that these differences are of great importance. one nal special difculty about the social sciences concerns their role in guiding conduct. one view is that economics serves policy in the same waythat the natural sciences guide policies that is, by helping policy makers tochoose means that will achieve their ends. such a practical role for scientic knowledge seems unproblematic. agents have some goal that they want toaccomplish, and the scientist provides the needed know-how. on thisview, economics matters to policy only as a source of descriptive or value- free information. it matters so much, simply because it is so relevant. thisview of the policy relevance of economics is defended in many of the essays reprinted in this anthology. manydisagree. they argue that the links between economics, policy, and values go deeper. the demands and interests of public policy makers or ofprivate employers inuence which questions social theorists ask and therange of possible solutions that are seriously considered. the inuence can sometimes be crude: economists are people after all, and they can be cor-rupted by the lure of money and prestige. or there may be more subtle inuences from customs, mores, and rhetoric to avoid what seems unrea-sonable or irresponsible. although it is hard to deny that ideologicalforces have inuenced many social scientists, the extent of such ideologicaland evaluative inuences requires sober assessment. what looks like ide-ology to an unsympathetic critic may in fact be work of unimpeachableintellectual integrity. there are other less nefarious ways in which economics is entangled in values. because policy makers rarely turn to economists with precisely for-mulated goals, economists may help determine the goals. indeed, as philoso- phers such as john dewey have argued, the distinction between meansand ends, as plausible and useful as it may sometimes be, may misleadhere. the major economists of the past two centuries have also been social

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 22 introd uction philosophers who have found in economic theory inspiration for their social ideals. although some have argued that normative or welfare economics,which is discussed in part iiiof this anthology, is really a part of posi- tive economics, investigating means to ends, most would concede that itis driven by moral commitments. michael s. mcpherson and i explore thephilosophical foundations of nor mative economics in chapter 13. inproviding the reader with both some glimpse of ndings in philos- ophy of science and some sense of how much remains to be found out,this introduction may have discouraged readers who were looking for moredetailed guidance. but in recognizing how much there is to be done, readersshould not overlook how much has been done. although logical positivismnds few supporters today, this is because the positivists were so devoted toclarity and precision and so intellectually honest and courageous that theyuncovered the inadequacies in their own positions and ultimately refutedthemselves. the more historically and empirically oriented philosophy ofscience and the sometimes exaggerated sociological views that have suc-ceeded them have, no doubt, many inadequacies, but they begin with knowl- edge that the positivists gained. similar comments apply to poppers seminalwork. these words are cold comfort to the citizen, policy maker, economist or social scientist who wants to know whether economics is a science, whetherhe or she should rely on particular economic theories for practical or the-oretical purposes or how he or she can best contribute to economics or tosome other social science. but there is nothing to be done other than tomake use of what has been learned. philosophy of science has many insightstooffer, and those who do not take it seriously are doomed to repeat its past mistakes. on the basis of such knowledge and on the basis of their ownexperience, economists and other scientists offer useful rules of thumb. but there is no well-founded general philosophical system to resolve the manyreal difculties economists, policy makers, and citizens face. an introduction to economics tounderstand the essays collected in this anthology, it helps to know some- thing about economics. what follows does not aim to provide the readerwith any technical competence. its goal is only to give some sense of (a) the basic approach of mainstream economists (b) the different branches ofeconomics and (c) the different schools or approaches of economics. although one can nd discussions of economics in ancient and medieval philosophy, economics is a modern subject. with the exception of some

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 23 writing on monetary theory and on the purported benets of exporting more goods than one imports, economics begins in the eighteenth centurywith the writings of the french physiocrats, of cantillon and hume, and especially of adam smith. what set these thinkers apart from the predeces-sors was their growing recognition of the existence of mechanisms whereby individual actions would have systematic consequences without any needfor government control of the processes. smith and others came to see theeconomy as to a large extent a self-regulating system. economics came intobeing when it was realized that there were such things as economic mecha-nisms and systems to study. economics has been concerned mainly with understanding how a cap- italist economic system works. (a capitalist economic system is a marketeconomy in which the means of production are for the most part pri-vately owned, and workers are free to accept or decline offers of employ-ment.) many economists believe that their theories apply to other economicarrangements, too, and a good deal of work has been done on other kindsof economies. but the core of economic theorizing has been devoted tounderstanding capitalist economies. since adam smith, a particular vision of such economies has dominated economic theorizing. one conceives of an economy as made up of a largenumber of independent rms and house holds, whose interactions with one another consist of voluntary exchanges of goods and services. everybodyknows that people have all sorts of other relations to one another, but theeconomist assumes as a rst approximation that these can be ignored whenone is addressing economic problems. economic agents are conceived ofas well-informed, rational, and self-interested agents, with rms seekingtomaximize prots and households seeking wealth or what best satises their preferences. agents exchange with one another because they prefertheir after-exchange circumstances to their before-exchange circumstances.inthe background is an institutional setting that ensures that contracts are kept, violence, coercion and fraud prevented, and so forth. adam smithformulates these conditions more loosely than i have, whereas contemporarytheorists formulate them much more precisely. but the basic vision haspersisted. given these assumptions, economists such as adam smith have for the most part believed that voluntary exchange would result in an efcientorganization of economic life, which would be benecial to all. in smithsview, and in the view of most economists since, such a market economy also respects individual liberty more than does any other economic arrangement. one thus has a strong justication for capitalism. it delivers the goods and

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 24 introd uction leaves individuals free to pursue their own objectives. smith could not, however, prove rigorously that voluntary exchanges of well-informed self-interested agents lead to efcient economic outcomes. shortly after world war ii, mathematicians and economists such as von neumann, arrow, debreu, and mckenzie proved something like what smith conjectured. they demonstrated that if agents are rational, self-interested, and well informed, and if they interact only through voluntary exchange inaperfectly competitive market, then a general equilibrium exists, which is paretoefcient. in addition, they proved that every pareto efcient outcome is a general equilibrium of voluntary exchanges among rational and self-interested agents, given the proper initial distribution of resources amongthe agents. 29ageneral equilibrium is a situation in which there is no excess demand on any market. an economic outcome ois pareto efcient if and only if one cannot depart from owithout frustrating someones prefer- ences. all possibilities for uncontroversial improvement have been seized.inan inefcient economic state of affairs, in contrast, there are ways of better satisfying some peoples preferences without lessening the preference satis-faction of others. the efciency in question here is efciency in satisfyingpreferences. although inefciency in satisfying preferences is arguably a bad thing, lots of things are worse. whether a state of affairs is pareto efcient is gener-ally independent of the distribution of goods, and accordingly some paretoefcient states of affairs may be intolerable. for example, almost everyonefavors a great many nonoptimal economic circumstances over a pareto ef-cient state of affairs in which one man had everything he wanted and mostothers were miserable. one should be skeptical about the signicance ofproofs of the existence and efciency of general equilibria both because ofthe weakness of the notion of pareto efciency and because of the extremelyrestrictive assumptions needed for the proofs. butihave jumped directly from the beginning to near the end of the story. let us see how, over the last two centuries, the image of rational, well-informed, and self-interested agents exchanging with one another has beenrened. the classical economists, of whom adam smith, david ricardo, and john stuart mill are the most prominent, did not have much to sayabout the choices of consumers. their emphasis was on production and onthe factors that inuence the supply of consumption goods. they regardedagents as seeking to maximize their nancial gains and divided both agentsand basic inputs into three major classes: capitalists with their capital (whichthey conceived of as stocks of accumulated goods or the value thereof), land-lords with their land, and workers with their ability to work. the classical

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 25 economists offered two main generalizations concerning production. first, they assumed that at any given moment al lreproducible goods (thus exclud- ing things such as rare paintings) could be produced in any quantity for thesame cost per unit. except for temporary price uctuations in times ofcrop failures or rapid changes in demand, prices should be determined bythese constant costs of production. second, classical economists discovereddiminishing returns. unless there is some technological innovation, as moreand more labor is devoted to a xed amount of land, the amount that outputincreases when an additional laborer is employed will eventually decline. given these generalizations concerning production and the view (most forcefully expressed by malthus) that higher wages cause rapid increases inpopulation, economists in the early nineteenth century drew gloomy con-clusions. with economic growth, demand for workers increases and wagesrise. the higher wages result in an increase in population. more workers need more food, and so capitalists (whom the classical economists thoughtof as renting rather than owning land) must rent additional and less fer-tile land, or they must cultivate existing land more intensively. either way,the proportional return (rate of prot) on the additional investments willbe lower. landlords will consequently be able to increase rents on morefertile land and the rate of prot throughout the economy must decline.ricardo argues that eventually the rate of prots will decline to the pointwhere it is no longer worthwhile for capitalists to invest at all. in the resultingstationary state, there are more workers, but they are no better off than their predecessors, since their wages will decline to that point where popula- tion no longer increases. capitalists are better off than workers, but the rateof prot is low and their returns are modest. the big winners are landlords,who do nothing but collect rents. there is, in the view of most classicaleconomists, little to do about this gloomy prospect except to agitate for theelimination of tariffs impeding the impor tation of foodstuffs and to preach restraint to the working class. fortunately, things did not turn out as ricardo predicted. with improve- ments in the standard of living, population growth slowed, and by the latenineteenth century, economists recognized that population need not growexplosively in response to higher wages. moreover, technological improve- ments brought about increases in productivity beyond the wildest dreamsof the classical economists, who vastly underestimated the ability of tech-nological improvements to stave off diminishing returns. bythe end of the nineteenth century, economics was no longer such adismal science. economists for the most part stopped worrying about population growth, and through the so-called neoclassical or marginal

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 26 introd uction revolution, they focused their attention on individual choice and exchange. inthe 1870s, william stanley jevons in england, carl menger in austria, and leon walras in france began paying systematic attention to preferences of consumers, to exchange, and to demand for commodities.30in do ing so, they lled in more of the basic vision of a market economy and transformedeconomic theory. manyof the early neoclassical economists, particularly jevons, were inu- ence byutilitarianism ,anethical theory expounded earlier by jeremy ben- tham and john stuart mill. 31according to the utilitarians, questions of social policy are to be answered by calculating the consequences of alternatives forthe total happiness of individuals. the policy that maximizes the sum ofindividual utilities is the morally right one. bentham held that the utility ofsomething to an individual is a sensation that might in principle be quanti-ed and measured. he also believed that individuals act so as to maximizetheir own utility (which raises the question of how they can be motivatedtocarry out actions that instead maximize the sum of everybodys utility). jevons developed the essentially benthamit enotion of a utility function. every option open to an individual results in a certain amount of utility for that person. one can then clarify the notion of rationality by maintainingthat people act so as to maximize some consistent utility function. in addi-tion, the neoclassical economists assumed that consumers are generally notsatiated that they will always prefer a bundle xof commodities or services toanother bundle yifxis unambiguously larger than y.nonsatiation is both aplausible rst approximation, and it articulates the notion of self-interest. all that matters to agents are the bundles of commodities and services thatthey are giving up or receiving. with the addition of one more generalization, one has the core of mod- ern economic theory. the early neoclassical economists noted that as oneconsumes more of any commodity or service, each additional unit increases ones utility at a diminishing rate. ones rst computer may raise ones utilityconsiderably. a second computer doesnt contribute nearly as much. this law of diminishing marginal utility explains why the price of essential butplentiful commodities such as water is lower than the price of inessential butscare commodities such as diamonds. thinking in terms of marginal utilityalso enables one to give an integrated account of the forces affecting bothdemand and supply. instead of regarding costs as reecting physical require-ments, most neoclassical theorists take costs to be the disutilities incurredwhen individuals devote resources or service to production or to be theutilities that would result from alternative uses of resources that individu-als forgo (although these are in turn inuenced by technical factors). the

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 27 forces governing supply and demand are ultimately the same. the role of the market is to equilibrate these forces and to bring into harmony the effortsof individuals to secure what they want. with the further simplication thatcommodities are innitely divisible, it became possible to apply the calculus toeconomics and to formulate this theory mathematically. in principle, the single theory of general equilibrium should enable one to explain virtuallyall the signicant features of an economy. inthe 130 years since the neoclassical revolution, this theory has been tremendously rened. in speaking of utility, for example, contemporary economists are no longer speaking of some sensation that individuals wanttomaximize. utility is now just another way to speak about preferences. the utility of some object of choice xto ag entais larger than that of option yif and only if aprefers xtoy.intaking utility to reect merely the order- ing of preferences, economists had to surrender talk of utility differencesand hence of marginal utility. fortunately, the law of diminishing marginalutility can be reformulated in terms of the diminishing rates with whichindividuals are willing to substitute units of one commodity for another.roughly speaking, one can replace the law of diminishing marginal utility with the generalization that people are willing to pay less for additional units of commodities that they already have a lot of than for commodities thatthey have very little of. despite these renements, mainstream theory is stillrecognizably the theory developed by the early neoclassical economists. this fact may seem surprising, as most people know that in response to the great depression of the 1930s, john maynard keynes proposed a dramatic overhaul of economics. before keynes, most theorists of any reputation had maintained that a prolonged depression was impossible. there might be acrisis of condence, which would lead to a temporary hoarding of money andatemporary interruption in the general cycle of exchange (in which rms as a whole purchase resources from their owners, then sell the commoditiesproduced to the latter in their role as consumers, who then sell resources torms again and so on). but with an excess demand for money and excesssupplies of resources and commodities, prices are bound to drop and realinterest rates rise. any tendency to hoard would be self-correcting. keynes challenged this orthodoxy in part by emphasizing the importance of liquidity to both rms and individuals when they are faced with theuncertainties that a business crisis causes, and in part because he questionedthe efcacy of the supposed self-cor recting mechanisms. prices, especially wages, do not drop easily, and lower wages can lead to less spending, whichwould suppress demand for commodities and lead to an even deeper slump. keynes argued that government policy could increase aggregate demand for

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 28 introd uction commodities and encourage investment and in that way move the economy out of its unemployment equilibrium. despite keyness inuence, his work did not shake the fundamentals of neoclassical theory. initially, neoclassical theory instead divided into microe- conomics, on the one hand, which is concerned with individuals, rms, and industries, and macroeconomics, on the other hand, which is con-cerned with aggregate demand and the performance of the economy as a whole. although vestiges of this bifurcation persist, there ought, one wouldthink, to be important connections between microeconomics and macroe-conomics, and most economists nowadays insist on relating macroeconomic theories to stylized microeconomic foundations. for further discussion, seechapter 17. inthe 1970s and 1980s, keynesian economics was seriously challenged. notonly was it ill-suited to deal with the simultaneous ination and unem- ployment of the 1970s, but economists grew increasingly impatient withthe gap between micro- and macroeconomics and increasingly enamoredof microeconomics. unlike previous economists who made use of keyne-sian macroeconomics while hoping to reconcile it with microeconomics,members of the so-called new classical school refused to employ any mod-els that did not at least purport to derive from microeconomics or generalequilibrium theory. some, such as robert lucas, even went so far as to denyon the basis of microeconomic considerations that there was such a thing asinvoluntary unemployment, 32and lucas and others argued that the ratio- nal expectations of economic agents tend to undermine the effectiveness ofmonetary and scal policy as tools to manage the economy. itis hard to say whether the new classical research program has triumphed or failed. on the one hand, its econometric predictions were no improve-ment over its predecessors, and the experience of the 1990s made it hard tobelieve that policy (especially monetar ypolicy) had only a very limited effect on the economy. updated versions of keynesian economics remain inuen-tial. on the other hand, the concerns about modeling rational expectationsthat the new classical economists emphasized are now widely accepted, andnew classical economics lives on in a different form as so-called real busi-ness cycle theory, which argues that business cycles are largely a response toreal as opposed to monetary or policy factors. 33variations on real business cycle models are currently very inuential. as this brief description suggests,macroeconomics is an unsettled area of economics. although microeconomics and macroeconomics are the two main branches of mainstream economics, they do not include all of it. overthe past three generations, there has been an enormous expansion of

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 29 econometrics ,which is discussed in chapter 16.e c o n o metrics is a branch of applied statistics as well as a branch of economics. beginning in the 1930s, it was hoped that the claims of economic theorists might be tested and renedwith the help of statistical techniques. since then econometric techniques have become much more sophisticated. exactly what this work means foreconomic theory (as opposed to narrowly focused practical inquiries) iscontroversial, with some prominent economists arguing that econometrics is incapable of providing good reasons to believe or disbelieve any signicantcausal claims. 34 microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics together include most of mainstream economics, although there are of course specic sub-areas such as international trade, labor economics, and so forth. there arealso competing schools of economics, although in most cases they have rela-tively few proponents. a generation ago, there was still a good deal of interestin marxian economics. although marx was heavily inuenced by ricardoswork,hehad a different view of the nature of economics and of its rela- tionship to other social sciences than classical or neoclassical economists have. according to marxs historical materialism (which is sketched in chapter 5), the relations among people in the course of their productive activities are the most fundamental social re lations. relations of production strongly inuence not only other relationships but also the personalities andconsciousness of individuals. in studying economics, one is studying much more than how individuals produce, exchange, and distribute goods andservices; one is also studying how human beings shape the development oftheir species. marxregards capitalism, despite the miseries it may cause (which he meticulously documents), as an enormous step forward for human beings.capitalism relates individuals everywhere to one another through the worldmarket, and it expands the needs and horizons of people. but, as arguedin his early essay estranged labor, it does not allow people to deciderationally and consciously how society and human nature should develop. the market creates both a reality and an illusion of helplessness. given themarket, people cannot in fact consciously determine their collective future.atthe same time, it is an illusion to regard capitalism as eternal or natural. marxbelieves that people can and will transcend capitalism and organize production and distribution in some rational way. those who will carry out the socialist revolution are the workers, who are exploited, because they do all the producing but receive only part of the output. capitalists (who, on marxs view, possess little more real freedomthan do workers) would resist any revolution that attempts to take their

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 30 introd uction property and to prevent them from hiring workers and making prots. but, or so marx argues, in expanding the size of their enterprises, capitalists unwittingly enlarge and strengthen the working class and lay the foundationsfor socialist revolution. given the collapse of the soviet union and the transformation of its econ- omy and of the economies of eastern europe, interest in marxian economicshas collapsed as well. from one per spective, this is peculiar, because the russian and eastern european economies had only a tenuous connection with marxs economics. but economic theories do not hover above the political waves. they are instead tossed about and, in the case of marxseconomics, possibly drowned. institutionalist (or evolutionar y) economists make up another major contemporary alternative to mainstream economics. the neoclassical attempt to capture all relevant aspects of the economy in one elegant the-ory leaves out a great deal. in the view of the institutionalists (and theirnineteenth-century predecessors, the german historical school), it leavesout too much and in abstracting from institutional development, it missescentral aspects. the essays by thorstein veblen (chapter 6)and geoffrey m. hodg son (chapter 21)exemplify the institutionalist critique of main- stream economics and provide some sense of the institutionalist alternative.although institutionalists do not ignore individual decision making, theyemphasize the evolving constraints on agents occupying specic economicroles. the institutionalists do not constitute a tightly organized sect. the writings of the central historical gures (thorstein veblen, wesley mitchell, and john r. commons) are very different from one another. the empha-sis is on historically situated and evolutionary theorizing. economists aredivided on how successful institutional theorizing has been and is likelyto be. athird contemporary alternative to mainstream economics, about which there is currently heated disagreement, is behavioral economics, includingneuroeconomics. 35behavioral economics has been heavily inuenced by the increasingly important experimental work that economists have been doing,which is discussed in chapter 18byvernon smith. the general dissatisfac- tion many economists have felt with the highly simplied assumptions thatmainstream economics makes concerning individual beliefs and preferenceshas been superseded by carefully delineated behavioral anomalies that havebeen established through economic experimentation. it is now possible tostudy the inuence on preferences of a wide variety of cognitive, motiva-tional, and even neurological features of human beings and to develop theo-ries of economic behavior that are more psychologically nuanced. whether

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 31 and to what extent this work will help economists to address the questions concerning monetary policy, tax incidence, or economic welfare are hotly contested matters.36 these are but three of many approaches, which, in addition to mainstream neoclassical economics, occupy contemporary economists. a few othersdeserve to be mentioned. neo-ricardians believe that one can do better inunderstanding economies by employing modern mathematical reformula-tions and extensions of ricardos economics than by employing its neoclas-sical successor. 37austrian economists agree with neoclassical economists on the central generalizations of economics, but stress the importance ofuncertainty, disequilibrium, and a subjective point of view (chapter 20). because of these factors, they regard sophisticated mathematical analysesof equilibria as misleading. 38post-keynesian economists often offer simi- lar criticisms of high theory, but unlike the austrians, they tend to defendinterventionist policies. 39economic forecasters often depend very little on any specic economic theory. and the list could be extended. althoughcontemporary economics is dominated by mainstream microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics, there is lots more going on. an introduction to economic methodology john stuart mills 1836 essay, with which this analogy begins, is one of the rst discussions of the methodology of economics, and it is still one of thebest. from the perspective of a staunch empiricist like mill, economics is apuzzling science. its conclusions, which mill accepts, are rarely tested, andthey sometimes appear to be disconrme d. specic predictions based on economic theory are inexact and sometimes dead wrong. how can millreconcile his condence in economics and his empiricism? inmills view, the basic premises of economics are either psychological claims, which are established by introspection, or technical claims, such asthe law of diminishing returns, which are established directly by experimen-tation. these premises state how specic causal factors operate. if the onlycausal factors that affect economics were those that economists consider,then the conclusions of economics would be correct, because they followdeductively from its well-supported premises. in fact, mill argues, the con-clusions economists draw must be treated cautiously, because so much isleft out of their theory. economists must be ready to make allowances forvarious disturbances, and economists must recognize that their predictionsmay be badly mistaken even though their theory is fundamentally correct.they should regard economics as hypothetical as a science of tendencies,

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 32 introd uction whose inuence may be overwhelmed by interferences. because it is only ascience of tendencies, economists and policy makers cannot be condent that its predictions are always correct. mills view was inuential throughout the nineteenth and early twentieth century. it is, for example, still alive in john neville keyness authoritative summing up in the scope and method of political economy ,e x c e r p t sf r o m which were reprinted in the rst edition of this anthology. despite differencesin language, tone, and emphasis, weber adopts a similar position in hisdiscussion of ideal types in chapter 2. the transition from classical to neoclassical economics brought substan- tial changes in economic doctrine and changes in methodology. in its focuson individual decision making, neoclassical theory is a more individualistand subjective theory than was its classical predecessor, and the appreciationof this fact is an important contribution o fearly twentieth-century method- ological writing. the major gures in developing this subjective turn are theaustrians (including especially von mises), frank knight and lionel rob- bins. knights distinctive methodolog ical contribution lies in his distinction between risk, on the one hand, (where the alternatives and their probabili-ties are known) and error and true uncertainty, on the other hand. knightand the austrians agree that as soon as one abandons the subjective point ofview and thinks of economics as if it were a natural science, one loses sight of the central features of the subject. lionel robbins, in his classic anessay on the nature and signicance of economic science (chapter 3), comes close to the view of the austrians, but he is better known for his denition of economics as the science which studieshuman behavior as a relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternative uses (1935, p. 85). according to this denition, economicsis not concerned with any particular class of social phenomena (such asproduction, distribution, exchange, or consumption). economics is insteadconcerned with a particular aspect of human behavior. ones decisions to have children or to be unfaithful to ones spouse are, on this denition,as much a part of economics as supply and demand for tuna. robbinsis, in effect, dening economics as the science of rational choice thatis, as neoclassical theory. such redenitions are characteristic of scienticdevelopment. 40robbinss denition remains controversial, since it excludes from economics some work that most people regard as economics, such askeynesian theory. robbins, knight, and the austrians stress the individualism and subjec- tivity of economics, and they all emphasize the peculiarities of human actionas an object of scientic investigation. they also agree with mill that the basic

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 33 premises of economics are well established and that these premises are not impugned by the empirical failures of the theory. in fact, the austrians gofurther and argue that the basic premises are ap rioritruths. with the intrusion of the views of the logical positivists in the 1930s came the rst important change in the professions views on the justication ofeconomic theory. in 1938, t erence hutchison published the signicance and basic postulates of economic theory .inthis landmark book, hutchison argues that economics, like other sciences, must formulate testable gener-alizations and subject them to serious tests. the statements of pure the-ory in economics are, hutchison argues, empty denitional truths. claimsin economics are so hedged with ceteris paribus qualications that they are untestable. with the weight of contemporary logical positivism behindhim, hutchison insisted that it was time for economists to start behaving likeresponsible scientists. the development of revealed-preference theory and paul samuelsons defense of what he calls operationalism also supported the demand that economics be recast into testable theories. hutchisons criticisms were immediately rebutted by economists such as knight, but they remained disturbing. could it be that economics did not meet the standards of empirical science? some, such as knight and the aus-trians, were prepared to say that the standards of the natural sciences did not apply to economics. but most writers on economic methodology attemptedtoshow that economics satised the more sophisticated (and weaker) crite- riatowhich the logical positivists had already retreated. 41although milton friedmans well-known essay, the methodology of positive economics (1953; see chapter 7in this anthology) does not refer to contemporary phi- losophy of science, it, too, attempts to show that economics satises broadlypositivist standards. fordecades after its publication, friedmans essay dominated work on the methodology of economics. although almost all the many essays thathave been written in response to it have been critical (like the brief com-ments in chapters 8and9of this volume), friedmans essay has nevertheless remained the most inuential work on economic methodology of the twen- tieth century. one should not forget that there are many different methodological ques- tions that one can ask about economics. the different branches and schoolsof economics face special methodolog ical problems of their own, which are discussed in the six essays reprinted in part ivof this anthology. questions concerning the relations between positive and normative and the character of normative economics are the topic of part iii,although selections in other sections bear on this issue, too.

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 34 introd uction the eld of economic methodology, including methodological studies of the details of branches and schools of economics has blossomed during the last fteen years. part vturns to some of the new directions within economic methodology, and the widespread changes in the contents of theother parts of this anthology reect this blossoming. the extent to whichthe eld has matured was brought home to me vividly by how hard it was todecide on what to include. in the rst edition of this anthology, i noted thatat least nineteen books specically devo tedtoeconomic methodology had been published in english between 1975 and 1983. in the decade betweenthe rst and the second edition, i counted fty. since the second edition,there have been about one hundred more, and the outpouring of essays hasincreased at a greater pace. just after the rst edition of this anthology waspublished, a new journal, economics and philosophy began publishing works on methodology, the theory of rationality, and ethics and economics. justbefore the second edition of this anthology came out, the journal of eco- nomic methodology began publishing essays and reviews specically focused on methodology. and the pace of publicat ion of essays on economic method- ology in journals in economic theory, philosophy of science, and history ofeconomics or history of science has increased rapidly, too. were it not for thegenerous advice of many others, who are expert in particular sub-domains ofeconomic methodology, i would not have been able to do a competent job ofdesigning this edition of the anthology. 42the literature is now just too large! the methodological questions economics raises are varied, difcult, and for the most part unanswered. when i compiled the rst edition of thisanthology, i was optimistic that collabor ation between philosophers and economists would tame, if not answer, these questions. t o some extent thatoptimism has been rewarded: progress has been enormous. just comparethe essays in a current version of economics and philosophy orthe journal of economic methodology with the essays in the early issues of either journal. i would like to think that this anthology, now in its third edition and its third decade, has contributed to that progress. iamperhaps a little less optimistic now (or perhaps just older). the methodological problems economics raises are difcult, and progress isslow when philosophical argument has to contend with social forces andthe reward structure within academic disciplines. there is so much moretobe learned about the nature of economic models, how to compare and assess them, how to relate them to policy recommendations and empiricalstudies, and, most important, how to improve them. may this third editioncontinue to play a role in tackling these questions.

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 35 notes 1.fordefenses of scientic realism, see r. boyd, on the current status of scientic realism, erkenntnis 19 (1983): 4590 and r. miller, fact and method: explana- tion, conrmation and reality in the natural and the social sciences (princeton: princeton university press, 1987), part iii. for an inuential antirealist posi- tion, see b. van fraassen, the scientic image (oxford: oxford university press, 1980). 2.see c. hempel, aspects of scientic explanation and other essays in the philos- ophy of science (new y ork: free press, 1965), and for an overview of debates about scientic explanation, w. salmon, four decades of scientic explanation (minneapolis: university of minnesota press, 1990). 3.this is wesley salmons example from statistical explanation, in w. salmon,ed.statistical explanation and statistical relevance (pittsburgh: university of pittsburgh press, 1971), p. 34. 4.the example is adapted from s. bromberger, why questions, in r.colodny, ed. mind and cosmos: essays in contemporary science and philoso- phy(pittsburgh: university of pittsburgh press, 1966), pp. 86111. 5.in bothhow the laws of physics lie (oxford: clarendon press, 1983) and natures capacities and their measurement (oxford: clarendon press, 1989), nancy cartwright argues compellingly for the importance of causal notions in science,particularly physics. explicitly causal accounts of explanation are developed ind.lewis, causal explanation, pp. 21440 of his philosophical papers ,vol. 2 (oxford: oxford university press, 1986), r. miller, fact and method ,p a r t2 ,and w.salmon, scientic explanation and the causal structure of the world .t h e most sophisticated current account of causal explanation is in j. woodward,making things happen (oxford: oxford university press, 2003). 6.see g. von wright, explanation and understanding (ithaca, ny: cornell uni- versity press, 1971) and, for a more introductory treatment, chapter 2 of a. rosenberg, philosophy of social science (boulder, co: westview press, 1988). 7.see d. davidson, actions, reasons and causes, journal of philosophy 60 (1963): 685700 and a. rosenberg, microeconomic laws: a philosophical analysis (pittsburgh: university of pittsburgh press, 1976), ch. 5. 8.although the logical positivists and logical empiricists also talked about models,their notion, which was borrowed from formal logic, has little to do with themodels that economists employ. 9.see f. suppe, the structure of scientic theories ,2nd ed. (urbana: university of illinois press, 1977), esp. pp. 3118. 10.this predicate view of models derives from p . suppes, introduct ion to logic (new y ork: van nostrand reinhold, 1957), ch. 12, j. sneed, the logical struc- ture of mathematical physics (dordrecht: reidel, 1971), and w. stegmueller, the structuralist view of theories (new y ork: springer-verlag, 1979). for a conve- nient introductory treatment that follows the terminology that i prefer, see r.giere, understanding scientic reasoning ,2nd ed. (new y ork: holt, rinehart and winston, 1982), ch. 5. these authors all develop this view as an account of theo- ries rather than models. for a more detailed exposition of the view with reference

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 36 introd uction toeconomics, see my the inexact and separate science of economics (cambridge: cambridge university press, 1992), ch. 5. 11.see ludwig von mises, human action: a treatise on economics (new haven: y ale university press, 1949). other aspects of the austrian approach are developed in chapter 20. 12.the classic critique of the analytic-synthetic distinction is w. v . o. quine, twodogmas of empiricism, in from a logical point of view ,2nd ed. (new y ork: harper row, 1961), pp. 2046. see also h. putnam, the analytic and the synthetic, in h. feigl and g. maxwell, minnesota studies in the philosophy of science ,vol. 3, pp. 35097, and c. hempel, a logical appraisal of operational- ism, in his aspects of scientic explanation ,pp.12333. 13.aninquiry concerning human understanding (1748; rpt. indianapolis: bobbs- merrill, 1955), p. 47. 14.inrejecting foundationalism, i am following many contemporary philosophers. recent inuential antifoundationalists include quine in two dogmas, and epistemology naturalized, in ontological relativity and other essays (new york:columbia university press, 1969), pp. 6990 and i. levi in the enterprise of know ledge (cambridge, ma: mit press, 1980). the antifoundationalism of quine and levi derives in large part from the american pragmatists. 15.r. carnap, logical foundations of probability (chicago: university of chicago press, 1950). 16.for an excelle nt overview of recent work on conrmation, see the entry on conrmation theory by p . maher in the encyclopedia of philosophy ,2nd ed., edited by d. borchert (london: macmillan, 2005). for an overview of issuesconcerning theory appraisal with special reference to economics, see the entry bye. eells and d. hausman in the second edition of the newpalgrave dictionary ofeconomics (london: macmillan, 2007). 17.see k. po pper, the logic of scientic discovery [1935] (london: hutchinson co., 1959). 18.contr ast k. popper, objective knowledge: an evolutionary approach (oxford: clarendon press, 1972), ch. 1 with the logic of discovery ,ch. 2, esp. p. 50. despite this disavowal, popper continues to stress the asymmetry between falsicationand verication. 19.k. popper, science: conjectures and refutations, in conjectures and refu- tations: the growth of scientic knowledge ,3rded. (london: routledge, 1969), pp. 3365. 20.the logic of scientic discovery ,c h . 5. for contrasting views of the merits of poppers philosophy of science and their applicability to economics, see b. cald- well, c larifying popper. journal of economic literature 29 (1991): 133, d. w. hands, testing, rationality and progress (lanham, md: rowman and littleeld, 1992), ch. 11, and my the inexact and separate science of economics ,c h . 10. 21.t.kuhn, the structure of scientic revolutions 2nd ed. (chicago: university of chicago press, 1970), i. lakatos, falsication and the methodology of scienticresearch programmes, rpt. in his philosophical papers (cambridge: cambridge university press, 1978), vol. 1, pp. 8101. 22.especially in chapters 9 and 10 of the structure of scientic revolutions .

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 37 23.see j. brown, ed., scientic rationality: the sociological turn (dordrecht: kluwer, 1984) and, for an overview with applications to economics, d. w. hands, reec- tion without rules: economic methodology and contemporary science theory (cambridge: cambridge university press, 2001), chapter 5 and u. m aki, social conditioning of economics, in neil demarchi, ed. post-popperian methodology ofeconomics: recovering practice (boston: kluwer, 1994), pp. 65104. 24.see falsication and the methodology of scientic research programmes, pp. 11638, and especially pp. 124n, 125n, and 175n. 25.foramodern collection of views concerning understanding in the social sciences, see f. dallmayr and t. mccarthy, eds., understanding and social inquiry (notre dame: university of notre dame press, 1977). 26.see p . winch, the idea of a social science and its relation to philosophy (london: routledge, 1958). other prominent gures arguing that explanations in the social sciences involve interpretation are g. anscombe, p . geach, a. meldon,and g. von wright. 27.these general philosophical issues are linked to controversies concerningrational expectations in economics. see k. hoover, the new classical macro- economics: a sceptical inquiry (oxford: basil blackwell, 1988). 28.see, for example, r. chisholm, percei ving(ithaca, ny: cornell university press, 1957), ch. 11 and w. quine, word and object (cambridge, ma: mit press, 1960), chs. 4, 6. 29.forthe bright spots in this history, see e. roy weintraub, general equilibrium analysis: studies in appraisal (cambridge: cambridge university press, 1985). forsome of the less successful aspects, see weintraubs stabilizing dynamics (cambridge: cambridge university press, 1991). 30.w. je vons,the theory of political economy (1871); c. menger, grunds atze der volkwirthschaftslehre (1871); and l. walras elements of pure economics (1874), tr. w .jaffe(1954). many others were important, too, especially alfred marshall, whose principles of economics (1st ed., 1890) was for decades the main text of neoclassical economics. the common features in the work of jevons, menger,walras, and marshall or in the work of their immediate intellectual descendants should not be exaggerated. there also were sharp differences. 31.see particularly mills utilitarianism (1863). 32.r. lucas, unemployment policy, american economic review 68 (1978): 353 57. 33.foranexcellent overview, see g. stadler, real business cycles, journal of economic literature ,32(1994): 175083. 34.l. summers, the scientic illusion in empirical macroeconomics, scandina- vian journal of economics 93 (1991): 12948. 35.for an overview, see c. camerer, g. loewenstein, and m. rabin, eds. advances in behavioral economics (princeton: princeton university press, 2004). 36.see particularly, a. caplin and a. schotter, eds., perspectives on the future ofeconomics: positive and normative foundations (oxford: oxford university press, 2007). 37.leading neo-ricardian theorists include j. eatwell, p . garegnani, and l. pasinetti. the major theoretical work inuencing the neo-ricardians is p . sraffa, the

p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 38 introd uction production of commodities by means of commodities (cambridge: cambridge university press, 1960). 38.prominent austrian economists include l. von mises, f. von hayek, and m. rothbard. 39.see alfred eichner, ed., aguide to post-keynesian economics (white plains, ny: m.e. sharpe, 1978), and the journal of post-keynesian economics . 40.see kuhn, structure of scientic revolutions ,chapters 9 and 10. 41.fritz machlups work, some of which appeared in the rst two editions of this anthology is particularly noteworthy in this regard. see f. machlup, methodology ofeconomics and other social sciences (new y ork, academic press, 1978). i have argued that mills views are useful in allaying such empiricist qualms. see the inexact and separate science of economics (cambridge: cambridge university press, 1992), esp. chs. 8 and 12. 42.iwould in particular like to thank roger backhouse, peter boettke, richard bradley, bruce caldwell john davis, francesco guala, wade hands, kevin hoover, harold kincaid, uskali m aki, deirdre mccloskey, michael mcpher- son, philippe mongin, julie nelson, alex rosenberg, don ross, and margaretschabas, to whom i sent appeals for help. wade hands, kevin hoover, andelliott sober read drafts of this introduction and helped improve it. one ofgreat privileges of having worked so long on economic methodology is being able to count such wonderful people and wonderful intellects as friends.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 part one classic discussions the six selections reprinted in this section are a good sample of the major contributions to the philosophy and methodology of economics before the late 1930s, when logical positivism became inuential. not all the signi-cant works could be included even in abridged form but many of themethodological insights of authors omitted here, such as j. e. cairnes, j. n.keynes, carl menger, w. s. jevons, alfred marshall, and ludwig von mises appear in other essays in this anthology. the materials collected in this section represent a number of different perspectives and have stood the test of time. although economic theory haschanged considerably since mill or marx or veblen wrote, their appreci- ation of the methodological difculties of economics still rewards carefulstudy. one might, in fact, argue that thinking on economic methodologyhas advanced very little beyond the stage to which the authors in this sectionbrought it. 39

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 40

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 one on the denition and method of political economy john stuart mill john stuart mill (180673) was born in london, his father, james mill, was a friend of bentham and of ricardo and did important work himself in psychology andpolitical science. as john stuart mill explains in his autobiography, he was educatedat home by his father, starting greek at age 3 and latin at age 8. by age 13 millhad been through a complete course in political economy. mill spent most of hislife working for the east india company. his principles of political economy (1848) was the nineteenth centurys most inuential text in economics, and his as y s t e m of logic (1843) was the centurys most inuential text in logic and the theory of knowledge. his essays on ethics and contemporary culture, such as utilitarianism and on liberty ,continue to be extremely inuential. mill was an early defender of womens rights and of a moderate democratic socialism. the following selection is an abridgment of mills on the denition of political economy and the methodof investigation proper to it. approximately the rst quarter of the essay, in whichmill discusses the denition of economics, is omitted. what is now commonly understood by the term political economy is not the science of speculative politics, but a branch of that science. it does nottreat of the whole of mans nature as modied by the social state, nor of the whole conduct of man in society. it is concerned with him solely as abeing who desires to possess wealth, and who is capable of judging of thecomparative efcacy of means for obtaining that end. it predicts only such of the phenomena of the social state as take place in consequence of thepursuit of wealth. it makes entire abstraction of every other human passionor motive; except those which may be regarded as perpetually antagonizingprinciples to the desire of wealth, namely, aversion to labour, and desireof the present enjoyment of costly indulgences. these it takes, to a certain excerpted from on the denition of political economy and the method of investigation proper to it (1836). reprinted in essays on some unsettled questions of political economy (1844), 3d ed., london: longmans green co., 1877, pp. 12064. 41

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 42 john st uart mill extent, into its calculations, because these do not merely, like other desires, occasionally conict with the pursuit of wealth, but accompany it alwaysas a drag, or impediment, and are therefore inseparably mixed up in theconsideration of it. political economy considers mankind as occupied solely in acquiring and consuming wealth; and aims at showing what is the courseof action into which mankind, living in a state of society, would be impelled,if that motive, except in the degree in which it is checked by the two perpetualcounter-motives above adverted to, were absolute ruler of all their actions. under the inuence of this desire, it shows mankind accumulating wealth, and employing that wealth in the production of other wealth; sanctioning bymutual agreement the institution of property; establishing laws to prevent individuals from encroaching upon the property of others by force or fraud;adopting various contrivances for increasing the productiveness of theirlabour; settling the division of the produce by agreement, under the inuenceof competition (competition itself being governed by certain laws, whichlaws are therefore the ultimate regulators of the division of the produce);and employing certain expedients (as money, credit, c.) to facilitate thedistribution. all these operations, though many of them are really the resultof a plurality of motives, are considered by political economy as owingsolely from the desire of wealth. the science then proceeds to investigatethe laws which govern these several operations, under the supposition thatman is a being who is determined, by the necessity of his nature, to prefer agreater portion of wealth to a smaller in all cases, without any other exception than that constituted by the two counter-motives already specied. not thatany political economist was ever so absurd as to suppose that mankindare really thus constituted, but because this is the mode in which sciencemust necessarily proceed. when an effect depends upon a concurrence of causes, those causes must be studied one at a time, and their laws separatelyinvestigated, if we wish, through the causes, to obtain the power of eitherpredicting or controlling the effect; since the law of the effect is compoundedof the laws of all the causes which determine it. the law of the centripetaland that of the tangential force must have been known before the motionsof the earth and planets could be explained, or many of them predicted. thesame is the case with the conduct of man in society. in order to judge howhe will act under the variety of desires and aversions which are concurrentlyoperating upon him, we must know how he would act under the exclusiveinuence of each one in particular. there is, perhaps, no action of a mans lifein which he is neither under the immediate nor under the remote inuenceof any impulse but the mere desire of wealth. with respect to those parts ofhuman conduct of which wealth is not even the principal object, to these

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 43 political economy does not pretend that its conclusions are applicable. but there are also certain departments of human affairs, in which the acquisitionof wealth is the main and acknowledged end. it is only of these that politicaleconomy takes notice. the manner in which it necessarily proceeds is thatof treating the main and acknowledged end as if it were the sole end; which,of all hypotheses equally simple, is the nearest to the truth. the politicaleconomist inquires, what are the actions which would be produced by thisdesire, if, within the departments in question, it were unimpeded by anyother. in this way a nearer approximation is obtained than would otherwisebe practicable, to the real order of human affairs in those departments. thisapproximation is then to be corrected by making proper allowance for theeffects of any impulses of a different description, which can be shown tointerfere with the result in any particular case. only in a few of the moststriking cases (such as the important one of the principle of population)are these corrections interpolated into the expositions of political economyitself; the strictness of purely scientic arrangement being thereby somewhatdeparted from, for the sake of practical utility. so far as it is known, or maybe presumed, that the conduct of mankind in the pursuit of wealth is underthe collateral inuence of any other of the properties of our nature thanthe desire of obtaining the greatest quantity of wealth with the least labourand self-denial, the conclusions of political economy will so far fail of beingapplicable to the explanation or prediction of real events, until they aremodied by a correct allowance for the degree of inuence exercised by theother cause. political economy, then, may be dened as follows: and the denition seems to be complete: the science which traces the laws of such of the phenomena of society as arise from the combined operations of mankind for the production of wealth, in so far as thosephenomena are not modied by the pursuit of any other object. butwhile this is a correct denition of political economy as a portion of the eld of science, the didactic writer on the subject will naturally combinein his exposition, with the truths of the pure science, as many of the practicalmodications as will, in his estimation, be most conducive to the usefulnessof his work. the above attempt to frame a stricter denition of the science than what are commonly received as such, may be thought to be of little use; or, at best, tobe chiey useful in a general survey and classication of the sciences, rather than as conducing to the more successful pursuit of the particular

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 44 john st uart mill science in question. we think otherwise, and for this reason; that, with the consideration of the denition of a science, is inseparably connected that of the philosophic method of the science; the nature of the process by which its investigations are to be carried on, its truths to be arrived at. now,in whatever science there are systematic differences of opinion which is as much to say, in all the moral or mental sciences, and in politi-cal economy among the rest; in whatever science there exist, among thosewho have attended to the subject, what are commonly called differences ofprinciple, as distinguished from differences of matter-of-fact or detail, thecause will be found to be, a difference in their conceptions of the philosophicmethod of the science. the parties who differ are guided, either knowinglyor unconsciously, by different views concerning the nature of the evidenceappropriate to the subject. they differ not solely in what they believe them-selves to see, but in the quarter whence they obtained the light by whichthey think they see it. the most universal of the forms in which this difference of method is accustomed to present itself, is the ancient feud between what is calledtheory, and what is called practice or e xperience. there are, on social and political questions, two kinds of reasoners: there is one portion who termthemselves practical men, and call the others theorists; a title which the latter do not reject, though they by no means recognize it as peculiar tothem. the distinction between the two is a very broad one, though it isone of which the language employed is a most incorrect exponent. it hasbeen again and again demonstrated, that those who are accused of despisingfacts and disregarding experience build and profess to build wholly uponfacts and experience; while those who disavow theory cannot make one stepwithout theorizing. but, although both classes of inquirers do nothing but theorize, and both of them consult no other guide than experience, thereis this difference between them, and a most important difference it is: thatthose who are called practical men require specic experience, and argue wholly upwards from particular facts to a general conclusion; while those who are called theorists aim at embracing a wider eld of experience, and,having argued upwards from particular facts to a general principle includingamuch wider range than that of the question under discussion, then argue downwards from that general principle to a variety of specic conclusions. suppose, for example, that the question were, whether absolute kings werelikely to employ the powers of government for the welfare or for the oppression of their subjects. the practicals would endeavour to determinethis question by a direct induction fr om the conduct of particular despotic monarchs, as testied by history. the theorists would refer the question to be

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 45 decided by the test not solely of our experience of kings, but of our experience of men. they would contend that an observation of the tendencies whichhuman nature manifested in the variety of situations in which human beings have been placed, and especially observation of what passes in our ownminds, warrants us in inferring that a human being in the situation of adespotic king will make a bad use of power; and this conclusion wouldlose nothing of its certainty even if absolute kings had never existed, or ifhistory furnished us with no information of the manner in which they hadcond ucted themselves. the rst of these methods is a method of induction, merely; the last amixed method of induction and ratiocination. the rst may be called the method aposteriori ;the latter, the method ap riori. weare aware that this last expression is sometimes used to characterize a supposed modeof philosophizing, which does not profess to be founded upon experienceat all. but we are not acquainted with any mode of philosophizing, onpolitical subjects at least, to which s uch a description is fairly applicable. bythe method aposteriori wemean that which requires, as the basis of its conclusions, not experience merely, but specic experience. by the method ap riori wemean (what has commonly been meant) reasoning from an assumed hypothesis; which is not a practice conned to mathematics, butis of the essence of all science which admits of general reasoning at all. t overify the hypothesis itself aposteriori ,that is, to examine whether the facts of any actual case are in accordance with it, is no part of the business ofscience at all, but of the application of science. inthe denition which we have attempted to frame of the science of polit- ical economy, we have characterized it as essentially an abstract science, and its method as the method ap riori.s u c hi s undoubtedly its character as it has been understood and taught by all its most distinguished teachers. it reasons,and, as we contend, must necessarily reason, from assumptions, not fromfacts. it is built upon hypotheses, strictly analogous to those which, under thename of denitions, are the foundation of the other abstract sciences. geom-etry presupposes an arbitrary denition of a line, that which has length butnot breadth. just in the same manner does political economy presupposean arbitrary denition of man, as a being who invariably does that by whichhe may obtain the greatest amount of necessaries, conveniences, and luxu-ries, with the smallest quantity of labour and physical self-denial with which they can be obtained in the existing state of knowledge. it is true that thisdenition of man is not formally prexed to any work on political economy,as the denition of a line is prexed to euclids elements; and in propor-tion as by being so prexed it would be less in danger of being forgotten,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 46 john st uart mill wemay see ground for regret that this is not done. it is proper that what is assumed in every particular case, should once for all be brought beforethe mind in its full extent, by being somewhere formally stated as a generalmaxim. now, no one who is conversant with systematic treatises on politicaleconomy will question, that whenever a political economist has shown that,byacting in a particular manner, a labourer may obviously obtain higher wages, a capitalist larger prots, or a landlord higher rent, he concludes,as a matter of course, that they will certainly act in that manner. politicaleconomy, therefore, reasons from assumed premises from premises which might be totally without foundation in fact, and which are not pretended tobe universally in accordance with it. the conclusions of political economy,consequently, like those of geometry, are only true, as the common phrase is,in the abstract ;that is, they are only true under certain suppositions, in which none but general causes causes common to the whole class of cases under consideration are taken into the account. this ought not to be denied by the political economist. if he deny it, then, and then only, he places himself in the wrong. the ap riorimethod which is laid to his charge, as if his employment of it proved his whole science tobe worthless, is, as we shall presently show, the only method by which truthcan possibly be attained in any department of the social science. all that isrequisite is, that he be on his guard not to ascribe to conclusions which are grounded upon an hypothesis a different kind of certainty from that which really belongs to them. they would be true without qualication, only in a case which is purely imaginary. in proportion as the actual facts recede fromthe hypothesis, he must allow a corresponding deviation from the strictletter of his conclusion; otherwise it will be true only of things such as hehas arbitrarily supposed, not of such things as really exist. that which is truein the abstract, is always true in the concrete with proper allowances. when acertain cause really exists, and if left to itself would infallibly produce a certain effect, that same effect, modied byall the other concurrent causes, will correctly corr espond to the result really produced. the conclusions of geometry are not strictly true of such lines, angles, and gures, as human hands can construct. but no one, therefore, contendsthat the conclusions of geometry are of no utility, or that it would be bettertoshut up euclids elements, and content ourselves with practice and exper ience. nomathematician ever thought that his denition of a line corresponded toan actual line. as little did any political economist ever imagine that real men had no object of desire but wealth, or none which would not giveway to the slightest motive of a pecuniary kind. but they were justied in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 47 assuming this, for the purposes of their argument: because they had to do only with those parts of human conduct which have pecuniary advantagefor their direct and principal object; and because, as no two individual casesare exactly alike, no general maxim could ever be laid down unless some of the circumstances of the particular case were left out of consideration. butwegofarther than to afrm that the method ap rioriis a legitimate mode of philosophical investigation in the moral sciences; we contend thatit is the only mode. we afrm that the method aposteriori ,orthat of specic experience, is altogether inefcacious in those sciences, as a means of arriving at any considerable body of valuable truth; though it admits of being usefullyapplied in aid of the method ap riori,and even forms an indispensable supplement to it. there is a property common to almost all the moral sciences, and by which they are distinguished from many of the physical; that is, that itis seldom in our power to make experiments in them. in chemistry andnatural philosophy, we can not only observe what happens under all thecombinations of circumstances which nature brings together, but we may also try an indenite number of new combinations. this we can seldomdo in ethical, and scarcely ever in political science. we cannot try formsof government and systems of national policy on a diminutive scale in ourlaboratories, shaping our experiments as we think they may most conducetothe advancement of knowledge. we therefore study nature under circum- stances of great disadvantage in these sciences; being conned to the limitednumber of experiments which take place (if we may so speak) of their own accord, without any preparation or management of ours; in circumstances,moreover, of great complexity, and never perfectly known to us; and withthe far greater part of the processes concealed from our observation. the consequence of this unavoidable defect in the materials of the induc- tion is, that we can rarely obtain what bacon has quaintly, but not unaptly,termed an experimentum crucis. inany science which admits of an unlimited range of arbitrary experi- ments, an experimentum crucis may always be obtained. being able to vary all the circumstances, we can always take effectual means of ascertainingwhich of them are, and which are not, material. call the effect b, and letthe question be whether the cause a in any way contributes to it. we try anexperiment in which all the surrounding circumstances are altered, except aalone: if the effect b is nevertheless produced, a is the cause of it. or, instead of leaving a, and changing the other circumstances, we leave all theother circumstances and change a: if the effect b in that case does nottake place, then again a is a necessary condition of its existence. either of these

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 48 john st uart mill experiments, if accurately performed, is an experimentum crucis ;i tc o n v e r t s the presumption we had before of the existence of a connection between aand b into proof, by negativing every other hypothesis which would accountfor the appearances. butthis can seldom be done in the moral sciences, owing to the immense multitude of the inuencing circumstances, and our very scanty means of varying the experiment. even in operating upon an individual mind, whichis the case affording greatest room for experimenting, we cannot often obtainacrucialexperiment. the effect, for example, of a particular circumstance in education, upon the formation of character, may be tried in a variety ofcases, but we can hardly ever be certain that any two of those cases differ inall their circumstances except the solitary one of which we wish to estimatethe inuence. in how much greater a degree must this difculty exist inthe affairs of states, where even the number of recorded experiments is so scanty in comparison with the variety and multitude of the circumstancesconcerned in each. how, for example, can we obtain a crucial experiment on the effect of a restrictive commercial policy upon national wealth? wemust nd two nations alike in every other respect, or at least possessed, in adegree exactly equal, of everything which conduces to national opulence, and adopting exactly the same policy in all their other affairs, but differing in this only, that one of them adopts a system of commercial restrictions,and the other adopts free trade. this would be a decisive experiment, sim-ilar to those which we can almost always obtain in experimental physics.doubtless this would be the most conclusive evidence of all if we could getit. but let any one consider how innitely numerous and various are thecircumstances which either directly or indirectly do or may inuence theamount of the national wealth, and then ask himself what are the probabil-ities that in the longest revolution of ages two nations will be found, whichagree, and can be shown to agree, in all those circumstances except one? since, therefore, it is vain to hope that truth can be arrived at, either in political economy or in any other department of the social science, while welook at the facts in the concrete, clothed in all the complexity with which nature has surrounded them, and endeavour to elicit a general law by aprocess of induction from a comparison of details; there remains no othermethod than the ap riorione, or that of abstract speculation. although sufciently ample grounds are not afforded in the eld of pol- itics, for a satisfactory induction by a comparison of the effects, the causesmay, in all cases, be made the subject of specic experiment. these causesare, laws of human nature, and external circumstances capable of exciting thehuman will to action. the desires of man, and the nature of the conduct to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 49 which they prompt him, are within the reach of our observation. we can also observe what are the objects which excite those desires. the materials of thisknowledge every one can principally collect within himself; with reasonableconsideration of the differences, of which experience discloses to him the existence, between himself and other people. knowing therefore accurately the properties of the substances concerned, we may reason with as muchcertainty as in the most demonstrative parts of physics from any assumed set of circumstances. this will be mere triing if the assumed circumstancesbear no sort of resemblance to any real ones; but if the assumption is correctas far as it goes, and differs from the truth no otherwise than as a part dif-fers from the whole, then the conclusions which are correctly deduced fromthe assumption constitute abstract truth; and when completed by adding or subtracting the effect of the non-calculated circumstances, they are true inthe concrete, and may be applied to practice. of this character is the science of political economy in the writings of its best teachers. t o render it perfect as an abstract science, the combinationsof circumstances which it assumes, in order to trace their effects, shouldembody all the circumstances that are common to all cases whatever, andlikewise all the circumstances that are common to any important class ofcases. the conclusions correctly deduced from these assumptions, wouldbe as true in the abstract as those of mathematics; and would be as near anapproximation as abstract truth can ever be, to truth in the concrete. when the principles of political economy are to be applied to a particular case, then it is necessary to take into account all the individual circumstancesof that case; not only examining to which of the sets of circumstances con-templated by the abstract science the circumstances of the case in question correspond, but likewise what other circumstances may exist in that case, which not being common to it with any large and strongly-marked class ofcases, have not fallen under the cognizance of the science. these circum-stances have been called disturbing causes. andhere only it is that an element of uncertainty enters into the process an uncertainty inherent in the natureof these complex phenomena, and arising from the impossibility of beingquite sure that all the circumstances of the particular case are known to ussufciently in detail, and that our attention is not unduly diverted from anyof them. this constitutes the only uncertainty of political economy; and not of it alone, but of the moral sciences in general. when the disturbing causesare known, the allowance necessary to be made for them detracts in no wayfrom scientic precision, nor constitutes any deviation from the ap riori method. the disturbing causes are not handed over to be dealt with by

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 50 john st uart mill mere conjecture. like friction in mechanics, to which they have been often compared, they may at rst have been considered merely as a non-assignable deduction to be made by guess from the result given by the general principles of science; but in time many of them are brought within the pale of theabstract science itself, and their effect is found to admit of as accurate anestimation as those more striking effects which they modify. the disturbingcauses have their laws, as the causes which are thereby disturbed have theirs;and from the laws of the disturbing causes, the nature and amount of thedisturbance may be predicted ap riori,like the operation of the more general laws which they are said to modify or disturb, but with which they mightmore properly be said to be concurrent. the effect of the special causes isthen to be added to, or subtracted from, the effect of the general ones. these disturbing causes are sometimes circumstances which operate upon human conduct through the same principle of human nature with which political economy is conversant, namely, the desire of wealth, but which are not general enough to be taken into account in the abstract science.of disturbances of this description every political economist can producemany examples. in other instances the disturbing cause is some other lawof human nature. in the latter case it never can fall within the provinceof political economy; it belongs to some other science; and here the merepolitical economist, he who has studied no science but political economy,if he attempt to apply his science to practice, will fail. 1 asfor the other kind of disturbing causes, namely those which operate through the same law of human nature out of which the general principlesof the science arise, these might always be brought within the pale of theabstract science if it were worth while; and when we make the necessaryallowances for them in practice, if we are doing anything but guess, weare following out the method of the abstract science into minuter details;inserting among its hypotheses a fresh and still more complex combinationof circumstances, and so adding pro h ac vice asupplementary chapter or appendix, or at least a supplementary theorem, to the abstract science. having now shown that the method ap rioriin political economy, and in all the other branches of moral science, is the only certain or scienticmode of investigation, and that the aposteriori method, or that of specic experience, as a means of arriving at truth, is inapplicable to these subjects, weshall be able to show that the latter method is notwithstanding of great value in the moral sciences; namely, not as a means of discovering truth,but of verifying it, and reducing to the lowest point that uncertainty beforealluded to as arising from the complexity of every particular case, and from

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 51 the difculty (not to say impossibility) of our being assured ap riorithat we have taken into account all the material circumstances. ifwecould be quite certain that we knew all the facts of the particular case, we could derive little additional advantage from specic experience.the causes being given, we may know what will be their effect, withoutan actual trial of every possible combination; since the causes are humanfeelings, and outward circumstances tted to excite them: and, as these forthe most part are, or at least might be, familiar to us, we can more surelyjudge of their combined effect from that familiarity, than from any evidencewhich can be elicited from the complicated and entangled circumstancesof an actual experiment. if the knowledge what are the particular causesoperating in any given instance were revealed to us by infallible authority,then, if our abstract science were perfect, we should become prophets. butthe causes are not so revealed: they are to be collected by observation; andobservation in circumstances of complexity is apt to be imperfect. some ofthe causes may lie beyond observation; many are apt to escape it, unless weare on the look-out for them; and it is only the habit of long and accurateobservation which can give us so correct a preconception what causes we arelikely to nd, as shall induce us to look for them in the right quarter. but suchis the nature of human understanding, that the very fact of attending withintensity to one part of a thing, has a tendency to withdraw the attentionfrom the other parts. we are consequently in great danger of adverting to aportion only of the causes which are actually at work. and if we are in thispredicament, the more accurate our deductions and the more certain ourconclusions in the abstract (that is, making abstraction of all circumstances except those which form part of the hypothesis), the less we are likely to suspect that we are in error: for no one could have looked closely intothe sources of fallacious thinking without being deeply conscious that thecoherence, and neat concatenation of our philosophical systems, is more apt than we are commonly aware to pass with us as evidence of their truth. wecannot, therefore, too carefully endeavour to verify our theory, by comparing, in the particular cases to which we have access, the results which it would have led us to predict, with most trustworthy accounts we can obtainof those which have been actually realized. the discrepancy between ouranticipations and the actual fact is often the only circumstance which wouldhave drawn our attention to some important disturbing cause which we hadoverlooked. nay, it often discloses to us errors in thought, still more serious than the omission of what can with any propriety be termed a disturbingcause. it often reveals to us that the basis itself of our whole argument

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 52 john st uart mill is insufcient; that the data, from which we had reasoned, comprise only apart, and not always the most important part, of the circumstances by which the result is really determined. such oversights are committed by verygood reasoners, and even by a still rarer class, that of good observers. itis a kind of error to which those are peculiarly liable whose views are thelargest and most philosophical; for exactly in that ratio are their minds moreaccustomed to dwell upon those laws, qualities, and tendencies, which arecommon to large classes of cases, and which belong to all place and all time; while it often happens that circumstances almost peculiar to the particularcase or era have a far greater share in governing that one case. although, therefore, a philosopher be convinced that no general truths can be attained in the affairs of nations by the aposteriori road, it does not the less behove him, according to the measure of his opportunities, toshift and scrutinize the details of every specic experiment. without this,he may be an excellent professor of abstract science; for a person may beof great use who points out correctly what effects will follow from certaincombinations of possible circumstances, in whatever tract of the extensive region of hypothetical cases those combinations may be found. he stands in the same relation to the legislator, as the mere geographer to the practicalnavigator; telling him the latitude and longitude of all sorts of places, butnot how to nd whereabouts he himself is sailing. if, however, he does nomore than this, he must rest contented to take no share in practical politics;tohave no opinion, or to hold it with extreme modesty, on the applications which should be made of his doctrines to existing circumstances. noone who attempts to lay down propositions for the guidance of mankind, however perfect his scientic acquirements, can dispense withapractical knowledge of the actual modes in which the affairs of the world are carried on, and an extensive personal experience of the actual ideas, feel-ings, and intellectual and moral tendencies of his own country and of hisownage. the true practical statesman is he who combines this experience with a profound knowledge of abstract political philosophy. either acquire- ment, without the other, leaves him lame and impotent if he is sensible of thedeciency; renders him obstinate and presumptuous if, as is more probable,he is entirely unconscious of it. such,then, are the respective ofces and uses of the ap rioriand the a posteriori methods the method of abstract science, and that of specic experiment as well in political economy, as in all the other branches of social philosophy. truth compels us to express our conviction that whetheramong those who have written on these subjects, or among those for whoseuse they wrote, few can be pointed out who have allowed to each of these

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 53 methods its just value, and systematical ly kept each to its proper objects and functions. one of the peculiarities of mode rntimes, the separation of theory from practice of the studies of the closet from the outward business of theworld has given a wrong bias to the ideas and feelings both of the student and of the man of business. each undervalues that part of the materials ofthought with which he is not familiar. the one despises all comprehensiveviews, the other neglects details. the one draws his notion of the universe from the few objects with which his course of life has happened to renderhim familiar; the other having got demonstration on his side, and forgettingthat it is only a demonstration nisiap roof at all times liable to be set aside bythe addition of a single new fact to the hypothesis denies, instead of examining and sifting, the allegations which are opposed to him. for this he has considerable excuse in the worthlessness of the testimony on which thefacts brought forward to invalidate the conclusions of theory usually rest. inthese complex matters, men see with their preconceived opinions, not withtheir eyes: an interested or a passionate mans statistics are of little worth;and a year seldom passes without examples of the astounding falsehoodswhich large bodies of respectable men will back each other in publishing tothe world as facts within their personal knowledge. it is not because a thing is asserted tobe true, but because in its nature it may be true, that asincere and patient inquirer will feel himself called upon to investigate it. he will use the assertions of opponents not as evidence, but indicationsleading to evidence; suggestions of the most proper course for his owninquiries. butwhile the philosopher and the practical man bandy half-truths with one another, we may seek far without nding one who, placed on a highereminence of thought, comprehends as a whole what they see only in sep-arate parts; who can make the anticipations of the philosopher guide theobservation of the practical man, and the specic experience of the practical man warn the philosopher where something is to be added to his theory. the most memorable example in modern times of a man who united the spirit of philosophy with the pursuits of active life, and kept wholly clearfrom the partialities and prejudices both of the student and of the practicalstatesman, was turgot; the wonder not only of his age, but of history, for hisastonishing combination of the most opposite, and, judging from commonexperience, almost incompatible excellences. though it is impossible to furnish any test by which a speculative thinker, either in political economy or in any other branch of social philosophy,may know that he is competent to judge of the application of his principlestothe existing condition of his own or any other country, indications may

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 54 john st uart mill be suggested by the absence of which he may well and surely know that he is not competent. his knowledge must at least enable him to explainand account for what is,orheisaninsufcient judge of what ought to be. ifap olitical economist, for instance, nds himself puzzled by any recent or present commercial phenomena; if there is any mystery to him in thelate or present state of the productive industry of the country, which hisknowledge of principle does not enable him to unriddle; he may be surethat something is wanting to render his system of opinions a safe guide inexisting circumstances. either some of the facts which inuence the situation of the country and the course of events are not known to him; or, knowingthem, he knows not what ought to be their effects. in the latter case hissystem is imperfect even as an abstract system; it does not enable him totrace correctly all the consequences even of assumed premises. though he succeed in throwing doubts upon the reality of some of the phenomenawhich he is required to explain, his task is not yet completed; even then he iscalled upon to show how the belief, which he deems unfounded, arose; andwhat is the real nature of the appearances which gave a colour of probabilitytoallegations which examination proves to be untrue. when the speculative politician has gone through this labour has gone through it conscientiously, not with the desire of nding his system complete,but of making it so he may deem himself qualied to apply his principlestothe guidance of practice: but he must still continue to exercise the same discipline upon every new combination of facts as it arises; he must make alarge allowance for the disturbing inuence of unforeseen causes, and mustcarefully watch the result of every experiment, in order that any residuumof facts which his principles did not lead him to expect, and do not enablehim to explain, may become the subject of a fresh analysis, and furnish theoccasion for a consequent enlargement or correction of his general views. the method of the practical philosopher consists, therefore, of two processes; the one analytical, the other synthetical. he must analyze the existing state of society into its elements, not dropping and losing any of them by the way. after referring to the experience of individual man to learnthelawof each of these elements, that is, to learn what are its natural effects, and how much of the effect follows from so much of the cause when notcounteracted by any other cause, there remains an operation of synthesis ;t o put all these effects together, and, from what they are separately, to collectwhat would be the effect of all the causes acting at once. if these variousoperations could be correctly perfor med, the result would be prophecy; but as they can be performed only with a certain approximation of correctness,mankind can never predict with absolute certainty, but only with a less or

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 55 greater degree of probability; according as they are better or worse apprised what the causes are, have learnt with more or less accuracy from experiencethe law to which each of those causes, when acting separately, conforms, and have summed up the aggregate effect more or less carefully. with all the precautions which have been indicated there will still be some danger of falling into partial views; but we shall at least have taken the bestsecurities against it. all that we can do more, is to endeavour to be impartialcritics of our own theories, and to free ourselves, as far as we are able, fromthat reluctance from which few inquirers are altogether exempt, to admitthe reality or relevancy of any facts which they have not previously eithertaken into, or left a place open for in, their systems. ifindeed every phenomenon was gene rally the effect of no more than one cause, a knowledge of the law of that cause would, unless there was alogical error in our reasoning, enable us condently to predict all the circum-stances of the phenomenon. we might then, if we had carefully examinedour premises and our reasoning, and found no aw, venture to disbelievethe testimony which might be brought to show that matters had turned outdifferently from what we should have predicted. if the causes of erroneousconclusions were always patent on the face of the reasonings which lead to them, the human understanding would be a far more trustworthy instru-ment than it is. but the narrowest examination of the process itself willhelp us little towards discovering that we have omitted part of the premiseswhich we ought to have taken into our reasoning. effects are commonlydetermined by a concurrence of causes. if we have overlooked any one cause, wemay reason justly from all the others, and only be the further wrong. our premises will be true, and our reasoning correct, and yet the result of no valuein the particular case. there is, therefore, almost always room for a modestdoubt as to our practical conclusions. against false premises and unsoundreasoning, a good mental discipline may effectually secure us; but against the danger of overlooking something, neither strength of understanding nor intellectual cultivation can be more than avery imperfect protection. a per- son may be warranted in feeling condent, that whatever he has carefullycontemplated with his minds eye he has seen correctly; but no one can be sure that there is not something in existence which he has not seen at all.hecan do no more than satisfy himself that he has seen all that is visible toany other persons who have concerned themselves with the subject. for this purpose he must endeavour to place himself at their point of view, andstrive earnestly to see the object as they see it; nor give up the attempt untilhe has either added the appearance which is oating before them to his ownstock of realities, or made out clearly that it is an optical deception.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 56 john st uart mill the principles which we have now stated are by no means alien to common apprehension: they are not absolutely hidden, perhaps, from any one, butare commonly seen through a mist. we might have presented the latterpart of them in a phraseology in which they would have seemed the mostfamiliar of truisms: we might have cautioned inquirers against too extensivegeneralization ,and reminded them that there are exceptions toall rules. suchis the current language of those who distrust comprehensive thinking, without having any clear notion why or where it ought to be distrusted. wehave avoided the use of these expressions purposely, because we deem them supercial and inaccurate. the error, when there is error, does notarise from generalizing too extensively; that is, from including too wide a rangeof particular cases in a single proposition. doubtless, a man often assertsof an entire class what is only true of a part of it; but his error generallyconsists not in making too wide an assertion, but in making the wrong kind of assertion: he predicated an actual result, when he should only have predicated a tendency totheresultap o w e ra c t i n gw i t hc e r tain intensity in that direction. with regard to exceptions ;inanytolerably advanced science there is properly no such thing as an exception. what is thought to be anexception to a principle is always some other and distinct principle cutting into the former: some other force which impinges against the rst force,and deects it from its direction. there are not a lawand an exception to that law the law acting in ninety-nine cases, and the exception in one.there are two laws, each possibly acting in the whole hundred cases, andbringing about a common effect by their conjunct operation. if the forcewhich, being the less conspicuous of the two, is called the disturbing force,prevails sufciently over the other force in some one case, to constitutethat case what is commonly called an exception, the same disturbing forceprobably acts as a modifying cause in many other cases which no one willcall exceptions. thus if it were stated to be a law of nature, that all heavy bodies fall to the ground, it would probably be said that the resistance of the atmosphere,which prevents a balloon from falling, c onstitutes the balloon an exception tothat pretended law of nature. but the real law is, that all i heavy bodies tend tofall; and to this there is no exception, not even the sun and moon; for even they, as every astronomer knows, tend towards the earth, withforce exactly equal to that with which the earth tends towards them. theresistance of the atmosphere might, in the particular case of the balloon, from a misapprehension of what the law of gravitation is, be said to prevail over the law; but its disturbing effect is quite as real in every other case, since

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 on the denition and method of political economy 57 though it does not prevent, it retards the fall of all bodies whatever. the rule, and the so-called exception, do not divide the cases between them; each ofthem is a comprehensive rule extending to all cases. t o call one of theseconcurrent principles an exception to the other, is supercial, and contrary tothe correct principles of nomenclature and arrangement. an effect of precisely the same kind, and arising from the same cause, ought not to beplaced in two different categories, merely as there does or does not existanother cause preponderating over it. itis only in art, as distinguished from science, that we can with propriety speak of exceptions. art, the immediate end of which is practice, has nothingtodo with causes, except as the means of bringing about effects. however heterogeneous the causes, it carries the effects of them all into one singlereckoning, and according as the sum-total is plus orminus ,according as it falls above or below a certain line, art says, do this, or abstain from doing it.the exception does not run by insensible degrees into the rule, like what arecalled exceptions in science. in a question of practice it frequently happensthat a certain thing is either t to be done, or t to be altogether abstainedfrom, there being no medium. if, in the majority of cases, it is t to be done,that is made the rule. when a case subsequently occurs in which the thingought not to be done, an entirely new leaf is turned over; the rule is nowdone with, and dismissed: a new train of ideas is introduced, between whichand those involved in the rule is a broad line of demarcation; as broad andtranchant as the difference between ay and no. very possibly, between the last case which comes within the rule and the rst of the exception, there isonly the difference of a shade: but that shade probably makes the whole inter-val between acting in one way and in a totally different one. we may, there-fore, in talking of art, unobjectionably speak of the ruleand the exception ; meaning by the rule, the cases in which there exists a preponderance, howeverslight, of inducements for acting in a particular way; and by the exception,the cases in which the preponderance is on the contrary side. note 1.one of the strongest reasons for drawing the line of separation clearly and broadly between science and art is the following: that the principle of classication inscience most conveniently follows the classication of causes ,while arts must nec- essarily be classied according to the classication of the effects ,the production of which is their appropriate end. now an effect, whether in physics or morals,commonly depends upon a concurrenc eofcauses, and it frequently happens that several of these causes belong to different sciences. thus in the construction

p1: jzp 9780521883504c01 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:12 58 john st uart mill of engines upon the principles of the science of mechanics ,itisnecessary to bear in mind the chemical properties of the material, such as its liability to oxydize; its electrical and magnetic properties, and so forth. from this it follows thatalthough the necessary foundation of all art is science, that is, the knowledge ofthe properties or laws of the objects upon which, and with which, the art does itswork;itisnot equally true that every art corresponds to one particular science. each art presupposes, not one science, but science in general; or, at least, manydistinct sciences.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 two objectivity and understanding in economics max weber maxw eber (18641920) was born in erfurt and taught at the universities of freiburg, heidelberg, vienna, and munich. he is most often regarded as a soci- ologist, although he was well educated in economics and took an active role indebates about the methodology of economics. he is perhaps best known for histhe protestant ethic and the spirit of capitalism ,inwhich he maintains that calvin- ism was instrumental in the early development of capitalism; but he made a greatmany fundamental contributions to our understanding of societies. his method-ological writings have also been extremely inuential. reprinted here are excerptsfrom objectivity in social science and social policy, which is probably the bestknown of his methodological writings. all serious reection about the ultimate elements of meaningful human conduct is oriented primarily in terms of the categories end and means. wedesire something concretely either for its own sake or as a means of achieving something else which is more highly desired. the question ofthe appropriateness of the means for achieving a given end is undoubtedlyaccessible to scientic analysis. inasmuch as we are able to determine (withinthe present limits of our knowledge) which means for the achievement ofaproposed end are appropriate or inappropriate, we can in this way esti- mate the chances of attaining a certain end by certain available means. inthis way we can indirectly criticize the se tting of the end itself as practically meaningful (on the basis of the existing historical situation) or as meaning-less with reference to existing conditions. furthermore, when the possibilityof attaining a proposed end appears to exist, we can determine (naturallywithin the limits of our existing knowledge) the consequences which the excerpted with permission of the free press, a division of simon schuster, inc., from the methodology of the social sciences bymaxweber. translated and edited by edward a. shils and henry a. finch. copyright 1949 by the free press. copyright renewed c circlecopyrt1977 by edward a. shils. 59

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 60 max w eber application of the means to be used will produce in addition to the eventual attainment of the proposed end, as a result of the interdependence of allevents. we can then provide the acting person with the ability to weigh and compare the undesirable as over against the desirable consequences of his action. thus, we can answer the question: what will the attainment of adesired end cost in terms of the predictable loss of other values? since,in the vast majority of cases, every goal that is striven for does cost orcan cost something in this sense, the weighing of the goal in terms of theincidental consequences of the action which realizes it cannot be omittedfrom the deliberation of persons who act with a sense of responsibility. oneof the most important functions of the technical criticism which w eh a v e been discussing thus far is to make this sort of analysis possible. t o applythe results of this analysis in the making of a decision, however, is not atask which science can undertake; it is rather the task of the acting, willingperson: he weighs and chooses from among the values involved accordingtohis own conscience and his personal view of the world. science can make him realize that all action and naturally, according to the circumstances,inaction imply in their consequences the espousal of certain values andherewith what is today so willingly overlooked the rejection of certainothers. the act of choice itself is his own responsibility. ... the type of social science in which we are interested is an empirical science of concrete reality (wirklichkeitswissenschaft). our aim is the understanding of the characteristic uniqueness of the reality in which we move. we wishtounderstand on the one hand the relationships and the cultural signif- icance of individual events in their contemporary manifestations and onthe other the causes of their being historically soand not otherwise .n o w , as soon as we attempt to reect about the way in which life confronts usin immediate concrete situations, it presents an innite multiplicity of suc-cessively and coexistently emerging and disappearing events, both within and outside ourselves. the absolute innitude of this multiplicity is seentoremain undiminished even when our attention is focused on a single object, for instance, a concrete act of exchange, as soon as we seriously attempt an exhaustive description of allthe individual components of this individual phenomenon, to say nothing of explaining it causally. all theanalysis of innite reality which the nite human mind can conduct rests onthe tacit assumption that only a nite portion of this reality constitutes theobject of scientic investigation, and that only it is important in the sense of being worthy of being known. but what are the criteria by which thissegment is selected? it has often been thought that the decisive criterion in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 objectivity and understanding in economics 61 the cultural sciences, too, was in the last analysis, the regular recurrence of certain causal relationships. the laws which we are able to perceive inthe innitely manifold stream of events must according to this concep-tion contain the scientically essent ial aspect of reality. as soon as we have shown some causal relationship to be a law, i.e., if we have shown ittobe universally valid by means of comprehensive historical induction or have made it immediately and tangibly plausible according to our subjec-tive experience, a great number of similar cases order themselves under theformula thus attained. those elements in each individual event which areleft unaccounted for by the selectio noftheir elements subsumable under the law are considered as scientically unintegrated residues which will betaken care of in the further perfection of the system of laws. alternativelythey will be viewed as accidental and therefore scientically unimportantbecause they do not t into the structure of the law; in other words, they are not typical of the event and hence can only be the objects of idle curiosity.accordingly, even among the followers of the historical school we contin- ually nd the attitude which declares that the ideal which all the sciences,including the cultural sciences, serve and towards which they should striveeven in the remote future is a system of propositions from which reality can be deduced. as is well known, a leading natural scientist believed that hecould designate the (factually unattainable) ideal goal of such a treatment of cultural reality as a sort of astronomical knowledge. ... wehave designated as cultural sciences those disciplines which analyze the phenomena of life in terms of their cultural signicance. the signicance of a conguration of cultural phenomena and the basis of this signicancecannot however be derived and rendered intelligible by a system of analyticallaws ( gesetz esbegriffen ), however perfect it may be, since the signicance of cultural events presupposes a value-orientation towards these events. the concept of culture is a value-concept. empirical reality becomes culture to us because and insofar as we relate it to value ideas. it includes those segmentsand only those segments of reality which have become signicant to usbecause of this value-relevance. only a small portion of existing concretereality is colored by our value-conditioned interest and it alone is signicant tous. it is signicant because it reveals relationships which are important tous due to their connection with our values. only because and to the extent that this is the case is it worthwhile for us to know it in its individual features. we cannot discover, however, what is meaningful to us by meansof a presuppositionless investigat ion of empirical data. rather perception of its meaningfulness to us is the presupposition of its becoming an object

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 62 max w eber of investigation. meaningfulness naturally does not coincide with laws as such, and the more general the law the less the coincidence. for the specicmeaning which a phenomenon has for us is naturally nottobe found in those relationships which it shares with many other phenomena. ... what is the consequence of all this? naturally, it does not imply that the knowledge of universal propositions, the construction of abstract concepts, the knowledge of regularities and theattempt to formulate lawshavenoscientic justication in the cultural sciences. quite the contrary, if the causal knowledge of the historians consistsof the imputation of concrete effects to concrete causes, a valid imputation of any individual effect without the application of nomological knowledge i.e., the knowledge of recurrent causal sequences would in general beimpossible. whether a single individual component of a relationship is, inaconcrete case, to be assigned causal responsibility for an effect, the causal explanation of which is at issue, can in doubtful cases be determined only by estimating the effects which we generally expect from it and from the other components of the same complex which are relevant to the explanation. in other words, the adequate effects of the causal elements involved must be considered in arriving at any such conclusion. the extent to which thehistorian (in the widest sense of the word) can perform this imputation inareasonably certain manner with his imagination sharpened by personal experience and trained in analytic methods and the extent to which he must have recourse to the aid of special disciplines which make it possible, varies with the individual case. everywhere, however, and hence also inthe sphere of complicated economic processes, the more certain and themore comprehensive our general knowledge the greater is the certainty of imputation. this proposition is not in the least affected by the fact thateven in the case of all so-called economic laws without exception, we are concerned here not with laws in the narrower exact natural sciencesense, but with adequate causal relationships expressed in rules and with the application of the category of objective possibility. the establishmentof such regularities is not the endbut rather the means of knowledge. it is entirely a question of expediency, to be settled separately for each individualcase, whether a regularly recurrent causal relationship of everyday experienceshould be formulated into a law. laws are important and valuable in theexact natural sciences, in the measure that those sciences are universally valid. forthe knowledge of historical phenomena in their concreteness, the most general laws, because they are most devoid of content, are also the leastvaluable. the more comprehensive the validity, or scope of a term, the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 objectivity and understanding in economics 63 more it leads us away from the richness of reality since, in order to include the common elements of the largest possible number of phenomena, it must necessarily be as abstract as possible and hence devoid of content. in the cultural sciences, the knowledge of the universal or general is never valuablein itself. the conclusion which follows from the above is that an objective anal- ysis of cultural events, which proceeds according to the thesis that the idealof science is the reduction of empirical reality of laws, is meaningless. it isnot meaningless, as is often maintained, because cultural or psychic eventsfor instance are objectively less governed by laws. it is meaningless for anumber of other reasons. firstly, because the knowledge of social laws is not knowledge of social reality but is rather one of the various aids used by ourminds for attaining this end; secondly, because knowledge of cultural events is inconceivable except on a basis of the signicance which the concrete con- stellations of reality have for us in certain individual concrete situations. in which sense and in which situations this is the case is not revealed to us by any law; it is decided according to the value-ideas in the light of which we view culture in each individual case. culture is a nite segment of the meaningless innity of the world process, a segment on which human beings confer meaning and signicance. this is true for the human being who views aparticular culture as a mortal enemy and who seeks to return to nature. hecan attain this point of view only after viewing the culture in which he lives from the standpoint of his values, and nding it too soft. this isthe purely logical-formal fact which is involved when we speak of the log-ically necessary rootedness of all historical entities ( historische individuen ) in evaluative ideas. the transcendental presupposition of every cultural sciencelies not in our nding a certain culture or any culture in general to bevaluable but rather in the fact that we are cultural beings ,e n d o w ed with the capacity and the will to take a deliberate attitude towards the world andto le nd it signicance. whatever this signicance may be, it will lead us to judge certain phenomena of human existence in its light and to respondtothem as being (positively or negatively) meaningful. whatever may be the content of this attitude these phenomena have cultural signicancefor us and on this signicance alone rests its scientic interest. thus whenwespeak here of the conditioning of cultural knowledge through evaluative ideas ( wertideen )(following the terminology of modern, logic), it is done in the hope that we will not be subject to crude misunderstandings such asthe opinion that cultural signicance should be attributed only to valuable phenomena. prostitution is a cultural phenomenon just as much as religion or money. all three are cultural phenomena only because and only insofar as

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 64 max w eber their existence and the form which they historically assume touch directly or indirectly on our cultural interests and arouse our striving for knowledge concerning problems brought into focus by the evaluating ideas which give signicance tothe fragment of reality analyzed by those concepts. all knowledge of cultural reality, as may be seen, is always knowledge from particular points of view. when we require from the historian and social research worker as an elementary presupposition that they distin-guish the important from the trivial and that they should have the necessarypoint of view for this distinction, we mean that they must understand how to relate the events of the real world consciously or unconsciously touniversal cultural values and to select out those relationships which aresignicant for us. if the notion that those standpoints can be derived fromthe facts themselves continually recurs, it is due to the naive self-deceptionof the specialist who is unaware that it is due to the evaluative ideas withwhich he unconsciously approaches his subject matter, that he has selectedfrom an absolute innity a tiny portion with the study of which he concerns himself. in connection with this selectio nofindividual special aspects of the event which always and everywhere occurs, consciously or uncon-sciously, there also occurs that element of cultural-scientic work which isreferred to by the often-heard assertion that the personal element of a scientic work is what is really valuable in it, and that personality must beexpressed in every work if its existence is to be justied. t o be sure, without the investigators evaluative ideas, there would be no principle of selectionof subject-matter and no meaningful knowledge of the concrete reality. justas without the investigators conviction regarding the signicance of par-ticular cultural facts, every attempt to analyze concrete reality is absolutelymeaningless, so the direction of his personal belief, the refraction of val-ues in the prism of his mind, gives direction to his work. and the valuestowhich the scientic genius relates the object of his inquiry may deter- mine, i.e., decide the conception of a whole epoch, not only concerningwhat is regarded as valuable but also concerning what is signicant orinsignicant, important or unimportant in the phenomena. accordingly, cultural science in our sense involves subjective presup- positions insofar as it concerns itself only with those components of realitywhich have some relationship, however indirect, to events to which we attach cultural signicance. nonetheless, it is entirely causal knowledge exactly in the same sense as the knowledge of signicant concrete ( individueller )nat- ural events which have a qualitative character. among the many confusionswhich the overreaching tendency of a formal-juristic outlook has broughtabout in the cultural sciences, there has recently appeared the attempt to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 objectivity and understanding in economics 65 refute the materialistic conception of history by a series of clever but fal- lacious arguments which state that since all economic life must take place inlegally or conventionally regulated forms ,a l le c o n omic development must take the form of striving for the creation of new legal forms. hence, it is said tobe intelligible only through ethical maxims and is on this account essen- tially different from every type of natural development. accordingly theknowledge of economic development is said to be teleological in character.without wishing to discuss the meaning of the ambiguous term develop- ment, or the logically no less ambiguous term teleology in the socialsciences, it should be stated that such knowledge need not be teleologicalin the sense assumed by this point of view. the cultural signicance of nor-matively regulated legal relations and even norms themselves can undergo fundamental revolutionary changes even under conditions of the formalidentity of the prevailing legal norms. indeed, if one wishes to lose onesself for a moment in phantasies about the future, one might theoreticallyimagine, let us say, the socialization of the means of production unaccom-panied by any conscious striving towards this result, and without even thedisappearance or addition of a single paragraph of our legal code; the statis-tical frequency of certain legally regulated relationships might be changedfundamentally, and in many cases, even disappear entirely; a great number oflegal norms might become practically meaningless and their whole cultural signicance changed beyond identication. de lege ferenda discussions may be justiably disregarded by the materialistic conception of history sinceits central proposition is the indeed inevitable change in the signicance of legal institutions. those who v iew the painstaking labor of causally under- standing historical reality as of secondary importance can disregard it, but itis impossible to supplant it by any type of teleology. from our viewpoint,purpose is the conception of an effect which becomes a cause of an action. since we take into account every cause which produces or can produce a signicant effect, we also consider this one. its specic signicance consistsonly in the fact that we not only observe human conduct but can and desire tounderstand it. undoubtedly, all evaluative ideas are subjective. between the histori- cal interest in a family chronicle and that in the development of the great-est conceivable cultural phenomena which were and are common to anation or to mankind over long epochs, there exists an innite gradation ofsignicance arranged into an order which differs for each of us. and they are, naturally, historically variable in accordance with the character of theculture and the ideas which rule mens minds. but it obviously does notfollow from this that research in the cultural sciences can only have results

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 66 max w eber which are subjective in the sense that they are valid for one person and not for others. only the degree to which they interest different persons varies. inother words, the choice of the object of investigation and the extent or depthtowhich this investigation attempts to penetrate into the innite causal web, are determined by the evaluative ideas which dominate the investigator andhis age. in the method of investigation, the guiding point of view is of great importance for the construction of the conceptual scheme which will be used in the investigation. in the mode of their use,h o w e v e r , the investi- gator is obviously bound by the norms of our thought just as much here aselsewhere. for scientic truth is precisely what is valid for all who seektruth. however,there emerges from this the meaninglessness of the idea which prevails occasionally even among historians, namely, that the goal of thecultural sciences, however far it may be from realization, is to construct aclosed system of concepts, in which reality is synthesized in some sort ofpermanently anduniversally valid classication and from which it can again be deduced. the stream of immeasurable events ows unendingly towardseternity. the cultural problems which move men form themselves ever anewand in different colors, and the boundaries of that area in the innite streamof concrete events which acquires meaning and signicance for us, i.e.,which becomes an historical individual, are constantly subject to change.the intellectual contexts from which it is viewed and scientically analyzedshift. the points of departure of the cultural sciences remain changeablethroughout the limitless future as long as a chinese ossication of intellectuallife does not render mankind incapable of setting new questions to theeternally inexhaustible ow of life. a systematic science of culture, evenonly in the sense of a denitive, objectively valid, systematic xation of theproblems which it should treat, would be senseless in itself. such an attemptcould only produce a collection of n umerous, specically particularized, heterogeneous and disparate viewpoints in the light of which reality becomesculture through being signicant in its unique character. having now completed this lengthy discussion, we can nally turn to the question which is methodologically relev ant in the consideration of the objectivity of cultural knowledge. the question: what is the logical func- tion and structure of the concepts which our science, like all others, uses? restated with special reference to the decisive problem, the question is: what is the signicance of theory and theoretical conceptualization ( theoretische begr iffsbildung )for our knowledge of cultural reality? economics was originally as we have already seen a technique, at least in the central focus of its attention. by this we mean that it viewed real-ity from an at least ostensibly unambiguous and stable practical evaluative

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 objectivity and understanding in economics 67 standpoint: namely, the increase of the wealth of the population. it was on the other hand, from the very beginning, more than a technique sinceit was integrated into the great scheme of the natural law and rationalisticweltanschauung of the eighteenth century. the nature of that weltanschau- ungwith its optimistic faith in the theoret ical and practical rationalizability of reality had an important consequence insofar as it obstructed the discov- ery of the problematic character of that standpoint which had been assumed as self-evident. as the rational analysis of society arose in close connectionwith the modern development of natural science, so it remained related to it in its whole method of approach. in the natural sciences, the practicalevaluative attitude toward what was immediately and technically useful was closely associated from the very rst with the hope, taken over as a her-itage of antiquity and further elaborated, of attaining a purely objective(i.e., independent of all individual contingencies) monistic knowledge of thetotality of reality in a conceptual system of metaphysical validity and mathe- matical form. itwas thought that this hope could be realized by the method of generalizing abstraction and the formulation of laws based on empiricalanalysis. the natural sciences which were bound to evaluative standpoints,such as clinical medicine and even more what is conventionally called tech-nology became purely practical arts. the values for which they strove,e.g., the health of the patient, the technical perfection of a concrete produc-tive process, etc., were xed for the time being for all of them. the methodswhich they used could only consist in the application of the laws formulatedbythe theoretical disciplines. every theoretical advance in the construction of these laws was or could also be an advance for the practical disciplines.with the end given, the progressive reduction of concrete practical questions (e.g., a case of illness, a technical problem, etc.) to special cases of generallyvalid laws, meant that extension of theoretical knowledge was closely asso-ciated and identical with the extension of technical-practical possibilities. when modern biology subsumed those aspects of reality which interest ushistorically ,i.e., in all their concreteness, under a universally valid evolu- tionary principle, which at least had the appearance but not the actual-ity of embracing everything essential about the subject in the scheme ofuniversally valid laws, this seemed to be the nal twilight of all evaluativestandpoints in all the sciences. for since the so-called historical event wasasegment of the totality of reality, since the principle of causality which was the presupposition of all scientic work,seemed to require the analysis of all events into generally valid laws, and in view of the overwhelmingsuccess of the natural sciences which took this idea seriously, it appeared as ifthere was in general no conceivable meaning of scientic work other than the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 68 max w eber discovery of the laws of events. only those aspects of phenomena which were involved in the laws could be essential from the scientic point of view,and concrete individual events could be considered only as types, i.e., asrepresentative illustrations of laws. an interest in such events in themselves did not seem to be a scientic interest. itis impossible to trace here the important repercussions of this will- to-believe of naturalistic monism in economics. when socialist criticism and the work of the historians were beginning to transform the originalevaluative standpoints, the vigorous development of zoological research on one hand and the inuence of hegelian panlogism on the other preventedeconomics from attaining a clear and full understanding of the relationshipbetween concept and reality. the result, to the extent that we are interestedin it, is that despite the powerful resistance to the inltration of naturalisticdogma due to german idealism since fichte and the achievement of thegerman historical school in law and economics and partly because of theveryworkof the historical school, the naturalistic viewpoint in certain decisive problems has not yet been overcome. among these problems we ndthe relationship between theory and history, which is still problematicin our discipline. the abstract-theoretical method even today shows unmediated and ostensibly irreconcilable cleavage from empirical-historical research. theproponents of this method recognize in a thoroughly correct way themethodological impossibility of supplanting the historical knowledge ofreality by the formulation of laws or, vice versa, of constructing laws in the rigorous sense through the mere juxtaposition of historical observa-tions. now in order to arrive at these laws for they are certain that scienceshould be directed towards these as its highest goal they take it to be a factthat we always have a direct awareness of the structure of human actions inall their reality. hence so they think science can make human behaviordirectly intelligible with axiomatic evidentness and accordingly reveal itslaws. the only exact form of knowledge the formulation of immediatelyand intuitively evident laws is however at the same time the only one which offers access to events which have not been directly observed. hence, at leastas regards the fundamental phenomena of economic life, the constructionof a system of abstract and therefore purely formal propositions analogoustothose of the exact natural sciences, is the only means of analyzing and intellectually mastering the complexity of social life. in spite of the funda-mental methodological distinction between historical knowledge and theknowledge of laws which the creator of the theory drew as the rst and only one, he now claims empirical validity ,i nthe sense of the deducibility of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 objectivity and understanding in economics 69 reality from laws, for the propositions of abstract theory. it is true that this is not meant in the sense of empirical validity of the abstract economic lawsas such, but in the sense that when equally exact theories have been con-structed for all the other relevant factors, all these abstract theories togethermust contain the true reality of the object i.e., whatever is worthwhile knowing about it. exact economic theory deals with the operation of one psychic motive, the other theories have as their task the formulation of thebehavior of all the other motives into similar sorts of propositions enjoyinghypothetical validity. accordingly, the fantastic claim has occasionally been made for economic theories e.g., the abstract theories of price, interest,rent, etc., that they can, by ostensibly following the analogy of physical science propositions, be validly applied t othe derivation of quantitatively stated conclusions from given real premises, since given the ends, economicbehavior with respect to means is unambiguously determined. this claimfails to observe that in order to be able to reach this result even in the sim-plest case, the totality of the existing historical reality including every oneof its causal relationships must be assumed as given and presupposed asknown. but if thistype of knowledge were accessible to the nite mind of man, abstract theory would have no cognitive value whatsoever. the natural-istic prejudice that every concept in the cultural sciences should be similartothose in the exact natural sciences has led in consequence to the mis- understanding of the meaning of this theoretical construction ( theoretische gedankengebilde ). it has been believed that it is a matter of the psychological isolation of a specic impulse, the acquisitive impulse, or of the isolatedstudy of a specic maxim of human conduct, the so-called economic princi-ple. abstract theory purported to be based on psychological axioms and as a result historians have called for an empirical psychology in order to show the invalidity of those axioms and to derive the course of economic events frompsychological principles. we do not wish at this point to enter into a detailedcriticism of the belief in the signicance of a still to be created system-atic science of social psychology as the future foundation of the culturalsciences, and particularly of social economics, indeed, the partly brilliantattempts which have been made hitherto to interpret economic phenomenapsychologically, show in any case that the procedure does not begin withthe analysis of psychological qualities, moving then to the analysis of socialinstitutions, but that, on the contrary, insight into the psychological precon-ditions and consequences of institutions presupposes a precise knowledgeof the latter and the scientic analysis of their structure. in concrete cases,psychological analysis can contribute then an extremely valuable deepen-ing of the knowledge of the historical cultural conditioning and cultural

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 70 max w eber signicance of institutions. the interesting asp ect of the psychic attitude of a person in a social situation is specically particularized in each case, accord-ing to the special cultural signicance of the situation in question. it is aquestion of an extremely heterogeneous and highly concrete structure ofpsychic motives and inuences. social-psychological research involves thestudy of various very disparate individual types of cultural elements with reference to their interpretability by our empathic understanding. through social-psychological research, with the knowledge of individual institutionsas a point of departure, we will learn increasingly how to understand insti-tutions in a psychological way. we will not however deduce the institutionsfrom psychological laws or explain them by elementary psychological phe-nomena. thus, the far-ung polemic, which centered on the question of the psy- chological justication of abstract theor etical propositions, on the scope of the acquisitive impulse and the economic principle, etc., turns out tohave been fruitless. inthe establishment of the propositions of abstract theory, it is only appar- ently a matter of deductions from fundamental psychological motives.actually, the former are a special case of a kind of concept-construction which is peculiar and to a certain extent, indispensable, to the cultural sci-ences. it it worthwhile at this point to describe it in further detail since wecan thereby approach more closely the fundamental question of the sig-nicance of theory in the social sciences. therewith we leave undiscussed,once and for all, whether theparticular analytical concepts which we cite or towhich we allude as illustrations, correspond to the purposes they are to serve, i.e., whether in fact they are well-adapted. the question as to how far,for example, contemporary abstract theory should be further elaborated,is ultimately also a question of the strategy of science, which must, howeverconcern itself with other problems as well. even the theory of marginal utility is subsumable under a law of marginal utility. wehave in abstract economic theory an illustration of those synthetic constructs which have been designated as ideas ofhistorical phenomena. itoffers us an ideal picture of events on the commodity-market under con- ditions of a society organized on the principles of an exchange economy,free competition and rigorously rational conduct. this conceptual patternbrings together certain relationships and events of historical life into a com-plex, which is conceived as an internally consistent system. substantively, thisconstruct in itself is like a utopia which has been arrived at by the analytical accentuation of certain elements of reality. its relationship to the empiricaldata consists solely in the fact that where market-conditioned relationships

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 objectivity and understanding in economics 71 of the type referred to by the abstract construct are discovered or suspected toexist in reality to some extent, we can make the characteristic features of this relationship pragmatically clear and understandable by reference to anideal-type. this procedure can be indispensable for heuristic as well as expository purposes. the ideal typical concept will help to develop our skill in imputation in research: itisno hypothesis but it offers guidance to the construction of hypotheses. it is not a description of reality but it aims to giveunambiguous means of expression to such a description. it is thus the idea of the historically givenmodern society, based on an exchange econ- omy, which is developed for us by quite the same logical principles as areused in constructing the idea of the medieval city economy as a geneticconcept. when we do this, we construct the concept city economy not as an average of the economic structures actually existing in all the citiesobserved but as an ideal-type. anideal type is formed by the one-sided accentuation of one or more points of view and by the synthesis of a great many diffuse, discrete, more or less present and occasionally absent concrete individual phenomena, which are arranged according to those one-sidedly emphasized viewpoints into a unied analytical construct ( gedankenbild ). inits conceptual purity, this mental construct ( gedankenbild )cannot be found empirically anywhere in reality. it is a utopia. historical research faces the task of determining in each individual case, the extent to which thisideal construct approximates to or diverges from reality, to what extent forexample, the economic structure of a certain city is to be classied as a city- economy. when carefully applied, those concepts are particularly usefulin research and exposition. in very much the same way one can work theidea of handicraft into a utopia by arranging certain traits, actuallyfound in an unclear, confused state in the industrial enterprises of the mostdiverse epochs and countries, into a consistent ideal-construct by an accen-tuation of their essential tendencies. this ideal-type is then related to theidea ( gedankenausdruck )which one nds expressed there. one can further delineate a society in which all branches of economic and even intellectualactivity are governed by maxims which appear to be applications of the sameprinciple which characterizes the ideal-typical handicraft system. further-more, one can juxtapose alongside the ideal typical handicraft system theantithesis of a correspondingly ideal-typical capitalistic productive system,which has been abstracted out of certain features of modern large scaleindustry. on the basis of this, one can delineate the utopia of a capital-istic culture, i.e., one in which the governing principle is the investmentof private capital. this procedure would accentuate certain individual con-cretely diverse traits of modern material and intellectual culture in its unique

p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 72 max w eber aspects into an ideal construct which from our point of view would be com- pletely self-consistent. this would then be the delineation of an ideao f capitalistic culture. wemust disregard for the moment whether and how this procedure could be carried out. it is possible, or rather, it must be acceptedas certain that numerous, indeed a very great many, utopias of this sortcan be worked out, of which none is like another, and none of which can be observed in empirical reality as an actually existing economic system,buteach of which however claims that it is a representation of the idea of capitalistic culture. each of these can claim to be a representation of the idea of capitalistic culture to the extent that it has really taken certaintraits, meaningful in their essential features, from the empirical reality of our culture and brought them together into a unied ideal-construct. forthose phenomena which interest us as cultural phenomena are interestingtous with respect to very different kinds of evaluative ideas to which we relate them. inasmuch as the points of view from which they can become signicant for us are very diverse, the most varied criteria can be appliedtothe selection of the traits which are to enter into the construction of an ideal-typical view of a particular culture.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 three the nature and signicance of economic science lionel robbins lionel robbins (18981984) was educated at university college, london, and at the london school of economics. he taught at the london school of economics,new col lege, oxford, and at the university of london. the author of many books on economics and on economic policy, robbins was made a life peer in 1959. hisanessay on the nature and signicance of economic science ,f r o mw h i c he x c e r p t sa r e reprinted here, was immediately recognized as a classic and has been very inuential. chapter i: the subject matter of economics ...3. but where, then, are we to turn? the position is by no means hopeless. our critical examination of the materialist denition has brought us to apoint from which it is possible to proceed forthwith to formulate a denitionwhich shall be immune from all these strictures. letusturn back to the simplest case in which we found this denition inappropriate the case of isolated man dividing his time between theproduction of real income and the enjoyment of leisure. we have just seenthat such a division may legitimately be said to have an economic aspect.wherein does this aspect consist? the answer is to be found in the formulation of the exact conditions which make such division necessary. they are four. in the rst place, isolated manwants both real income and leisure. secondly, he has not enough of eitherfully to satisfy his want of each. thirdly, he can spend his time in augmenting his real income or he can spend it in taking more leisure. fourthly, it maybe presumed that, save in most exceptional cases, his want for the differentconstituents of real income and leisure will be different. therefore he has to excerpted from anessay on the nature and signicance of economic science ,2 de d., by lionel robbins. london: macmillan, 1935. copyright c circlecopyrtbymacmillan co. reproduced with permission of palgrave macmillan. 73

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 74 lionel robbins choose. he has to economise. the disposition of his time and his resources has a relationship to his system of wants. it has an economic aspect. this example is typical of the whole eld of economic studies. from the point of view of the economist, the conditions of human existence exhibit four fundamental characteristics. the ends are various. the time and themeans for achieving these ends are limited and capable of alternative appli-cation. at the same time the ends have different importance. here we are,sentient creatures with bundles of desires and aspirations, with masses ofinstinctive tendencies all urging us in different ways to action. but the time inwhich these tendencies can be expressed is limited. the external world doesnot offer full opportunities for their complete achievement. life is short.nature is niggardly. our fellows have other objectives. y et we can use our lives for doing different things, our materials and the services of others forachieving different objectives. now by itself the multiplicity of ends has no necessary interest for the economist. if i want to do two things, and i have ample time and amplemeans with which to do them, and i do not want the time or the meansfor anything else, then my conduct assumes none of those forms which arethe subject of economic science. nirvana is not necessarily single bliss. it ismerely the complete satisfaction of allrequirements. noristhe mere limitation of means by itself sufcient to give rise to economic phenomena. if means of satisfaction have no alternative use, thenthey may be scarce, but they cannot be economised the manna which fellfrom heaven may have been scarce, but, if it was impossible to exchangeit for something else or to postpone its use, 1it was not the object of any activity with an economic aspect. noragain is the alternative applicability of scarce means a complete con- dition of the existence of the kind of phenomena we are analysing. if theeconomic subject has two ends and one means of satisfying them, and thetwo ends are of equal importance, his position will be like the position ofthe ass in the fable, paralysed halfway between the two equally attractivebundles of hay. 2 butwhen time and the means for achieving ends are limited andcapable of alternative application, andthe ends are capable of being distinguished in order of importance, then behaviour necessarily assumes the form of choice.every act which involves time and scarce means for the achievement of one end involves the relinquishment of their use for the achievement of another.ithas an economic aspect. 3ifiwant bread and sleep, and in the time at my disposal i cannot have all i want of both, then some part of my wants ofbread and sleep must go unsatised. if, in a limited lifetime, i would wish

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 75 tobe both a philosopher and a mathematician, but my rate of acquisition of knowledge is such that i cannot do both completely, then some part of mywish for philosophical or mathematical competence or both must be relinquished. nownot all the means for achieving human ends are limited. there are things in the external world which are present in such comparativeabundance that the use of particular units for one thing does not involvegoing without other units for others. the air which we breathe, for instance,is such a free commodity. save in very special circumstances, the fact thatweneed air imposes no sacrice of time or resources. the loss of one cubic foot of air implies no sacrice of alternatives. units of air have no specicsignicance for conduct. and it is conceivable that living creatures mightexist whose ends were so limited that all goods for them were free goods, that no goods had specic signicance. but, in general, human activity with its multiplicity of objectives has not this independence of time or specic resources. the time at our disposalis limited. there are only twenty-four hours in the day. we have to choosebetween the different uses to which they may be put. the services whichothers put at our disposal are limited. the material means of achieving endsare limited. we have been turned out of paradise. we have neither eternal lifenor unlimited means of gratication. everywhere we turn, if we choose onething we must relinquish others which, in different circumstances, we wouldwish not to have relinquished. scarcity of means to satisfy ends of varying importance is an almost ubiquitous condition of human behaviour. 4 here,then, is the unity of subject of economic science, the forms assumed byhuman behaviour in disposing of scarce means. the examples we have discussed already harmonise perfectly with this conception. both the servicesof cooks and the services of opera dancers are limited in relation to demandand can be put to alternative uses. the theory of wages in its entirety iscoveredbyour present denition. so, too, is the political economy of war. the waging of war necessarily involves the withdrawal of scarce goods andservices from other uses, if it is to be satisfactorily achieved. it has thereforean economic aspect. the economist studies the disposal of scarce means. heis interested in the way different degrees of scarcity of different goods give risetodifferent ratios of valuation between them, and he is interested in the way in which changes in conditions of scarcity, whether coming from changesin ends or changes in means from the demand side or the supply side affect these ratios. economics is the science which studies human behaviouras a relationship between ends and scarce means which have alternativeuses. 5...

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 76 lionel robbins chapter iv: the nature of economic generalisations 1. we have now sufciently discussed the subject-matter of economics and the fundamental conceptions associated therewith. but we have not yetdiscussed the nature of the generalisations whereby these conceptions arerelated. we have not yet discussed the nature and derivation of economic laws. this, therefore, is the purpose of the present chapter. when it is completedweshall be in a position to proceed to our second main task investigation of the limitations and signicance of this system of generalisations. 2. it is the object of this essay to arrive at conclusions which are based on the inspection of economic science as it actually exists. its aim is not todiscover how economics should be pursued that controversy, although weshall have occasion to refer to it enpassant , 6may be regarded as settled as between reasonable people but rather what signicance is to be attached tothe results which it has already achieved. it will be convenient, therefore, atthe outset of our investigations, if, instead of attempting to derive the natureof economic generalisations from the pure categories of our subject-matter, 7 weproceed rather by examining specimens drawn from the existing body of analysis. the most fundamental propositions of economic analysis are the propo- sitions of the general theory of value. no matter what particular schoolis in question, no matter what arrang ement of subject-matter is adopted, the body of propositions explaining the nature and the determination ofthe relation between given goods of the rst order will be found to have apivotal position in the whole system. it would be premature to say that thetheory of this part of the subject is complete. but it is clear that enough hasbeen done to warrant our taking the central propositions as established. wemay proceed, therefore, to inquire on what their validity depends. itshould not be necessary to spend much time showing that it cannot rest upon a mere appeal to history . the frequent concomitance of certain phenomena in time may suggest a problem to be solved. it cannot by itselfbe taken to imply a denite causal relationship. it might be shown that,whenever the conditions postulated in any of the simple corollaries of thetheory of value have actually existed, the consequences deduced have actu-ally been observed to follow. thus, whenever the xing of prices in relativelyfree markets has taken place it has been followed either by evasion or bythe kind of distributive chaos which we associate with the food queuesof the late war or the french or russian revolutions. 8butthis would not prove that the phenomena in question were causally connected in any inti-mate sense. nor would it afford any safe ground for predictions with regard

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 77 totheir future relationship. in the absence of rational grounds for suppos- ing intimate connection, there would be no sufcient reason for supposing that history would repeat itself. for if there is one thing which isshown byhistory, not less than by elementary logic, it is that historical induction, unaided by the analytical judgment, is the worst possible basis of prophecy.9 history shows , commences the bore at the club, and we resign ourselves tothe prediction of the improbable. it is one of the great merits of the modernphilosophy of history that it has repudiated all claims of this sort, and indeedmakes it the fundamentum divisionis between history and natural science that history does not proceed by way of generalising abstraction. 10 itis equally clear that our belief does not rest upon the results of controlled experiment. it is perfectly true that the particular case just mentioned has on more than one occasion been exemplied by the results of governmentintervention carried out under conditions which might be held to bearsome resemblance to the conditions of controlled experiment. but it wouldbe very supercial to suppose that the results of these experiments can beheld to justify a proposition of such wide applicability, let alone the centralpropositions of the general theory of value. certainly it would be a veryfragile body of economic generalisations which could be erected on a basisof this sort. y et, in fact, our belief in these propositions is as complete asbelief based upon any number of controlled experiments. butonwhat, then, does it depend? it does not require much knowledge of modern economic analysis to realise that the foundation of the theory of value is the assumption that the different things that the individual wants to do have a different importancetohim, and can be arranged therefore in a certain order. this notion can be expressed in various ways and with varying degrees of precision, fromthe simple want systems of menger and the early austrians to the morerened scales of relative valuations of wicksteed and sch onfeld and the indifference systems of pareto and messrs. hicks and allen. but in the lastanalysis it reduces to this, that we can judge whether different possibleexperiences are of equivalent or greater or less importance to us. from this elementary fact of experience we can derive the idea of the substitutabilityof different goods, of the demand for one good in terms of another, of anequilibrium distribution of goods between different uses, of equilibrium ofexchange and of the formation of prices. as we pass from the description of the behaviour of the single individual to the discussion of markets wenaturally make other subsidiary assumptions there are two individuals ormany, the supply is in the hands of a monopoly or of a multiplicity of sellers,the individuals in one part of the market know or do not know what is going

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 78 lionel robbins on in other parts of the market, the legal framework of the market prohibits this or that mode of acquisition of exchange, and so on. we assume, too,agiven initial distribution of property. 11butalwaysthe main underlying assumption is the assumption of the schemes of valuation of the differenteconomic subjects. but this, we have seen already, is really an assumptionof one of the conditions which must be present if there is to be economicactivity at all. it is an essential constit uent of our conception of conduct with an economic aspect. the propositions so far mentioned all relate to the theory of the valuation of given goods. in the elementary theory of value and exchange no inquiryis made into the conditions of continuous production. if we assume thatproduction takes place, a new set of problems arises, necessitating new prin-ciples of explanation. we are confronted, e.g.,with the problem of explaining the relation between the value of the products and the value of the factorswhich produced them the so-called problem of imputation. what is thesanction here for the solutions which have been put forward? asis well known, the main principle of explanation, supplementary to the principles of subjective valuation assumed in the narrower theory ofvalue and exchange, is the principle sometimes described as the law ofdiminishing returns. now the law of diminishing returns is simply oneway of putting the obvious fact that different factors of production areimperfect substitutes for one another. if you increase the amount of labourwithout increasing the amount of land the product will increase, but it will not increase proportionately. t o secure a doubling of the product, if you donot double both land and labour, you have to more than double either oneof the factors. this is obvious. if it were not so, then all the corn in the worldcould be produced from one acre of land. it follows, too, from considerations more intimately connected with our fundamental conceptions. a class ofscarce factors is to be dened as consisting of those factors which are perfectsubstitutes. that is to say, difference sinfactors is to be dened essentially as imperfect substitutability. the law of diminishing returns, therefore,follows from the assumption that there is more than one class of scarcefactors of production. 12the supplementary principle that, within limits, returns may increase, follows equally directly from the assumption that factors are relatively indivisible. on the basis of these principles and withthe aid of subsidiary assumptions of the kind already mentioned (the natureof markets and the legal framework of production, etc.), it is possible to buildup a theory of equilibrium of production. 13 letusturn to more dynamic considerations. the theory of prots, to use the word in the rather restricted sense in which it has come to be used

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 79 in recent theory, is essentially an analysis of the effects of uncertainty with regard to the future availability of scarce goods and scarce factors. we live in aworld in which, not only are the things that we want scarce, but their exact occurrence is a matter of doubt and conjecture. in planning for the futurewehave to choose, not between certainties, but rather between a range of estimated probabilities. it is clear that the nature of this range itself may vary,and accordingly there must arise not only relative valuation of the differentkinds of uncertainties between themselves, but also of different ranges ofuncertainty similarly compared. from such concepts may be deduced manyof the most complicated propositions of the theory of economic dynamics. 14 andsowecould go on. we could show how the use of money can be deduced from the existence of indirect exchange and how the demand formoney can be deduced from the existence of the same uncertainties thatwehave just examined. 15wecould examine the propositions of the the- ory of capital and interest, and reduce them to elementary concepts of thetype we have been here discussing. but it is unnecessary to prolong the discussion further. the examples we have already examined should be suf-cient to establish the solution for which we are seeking. the propositionsof economic theory, like all scientic theory, are obviously deductions fromaseries of postulates. and the chief of these postulates are all assumptions involving in some way simple and indisputable facts of experience relatingtothe way in which the scarcity of goods which is the subject-matter of our science actually shows itself in the world of reality. the main postulate ofthe theory of value is the fact that individuals can arrange their preferencesin an order, and in fact do so. the main postulate of the theory of pro-duction is the fact that there are more than one factor of production. themain postulate of the theory of dynamics is the fact that we are not certainregarding future scarcities. these are not postulates the existence of whose counterpart in reality admits of extensive dispute once their nature is fully realised. we do not need controlled experiments to establish their validity: they are so much the stuff of our everyday experience that they have only tobe stated to be recognised as obvious. indeed, the danger is that they may bethought to be so obvious that nothing signicant can be derived from theirfurther examination. y et in fact it is on postulates of this sort that the com-plicated theorems of advanced analysis ultimately depend. and it is fromthe existence of the conditions they assume that the general applicability ofthe broader propositions of economic science is derived. 3. now of course it is true, as we have already seen, that the develop- ment of the more complicated applications of these propositions involvesthe use of a great multitude of subsidiary postulates regarding the condition

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 80 lionel robbins of markets, the number of parties to the exchange, the state of the law, the minimum sensible of buyers and sellers, and so on and so forth. the truth of the deductions from this structure depends, as always, on their logicalconsistency. their applicability to the interpretation of any particular situa- tion depends upon the existence in that situation of the elements postulated.whether the theory of competition or of monopoly is applicable to a given situation is a matter for inquiry. as in the applications of the broad princi-ples of the natural sciences, so in the application of economic principles wemust be careful to enquire concerning the nature of our material. it is not assumed that any of the many possible forms of competitive or monopo-listic conditions must necessarily always exist. but while it is important to realise how many are the subsidiary assumptions which necessarily arise as our theory becomes more and more complicated, it is equally important torealise how widely applicable are the main assumptions on which it rests. as wehave seen, the chief of them are applicable whenever and wherever the conditions which give rise to economic phenomena are present. considerations of this sort, it may be urged, should enable us easily to detect the fallacy implicit in a view which has played a great role in continen-tal discussions. it has sometimes been asserted that the generalisations ofeconomics are essentially historico-relative in character, that their validityis limited to certain historical conditions, and that outside these they haveno relevance to the analysis of social phenomena. this view is a dangerousmisapprehension. it can be given plausibility only by a distortion of theuse of words so complete as to be utterly misleading. it is quite true thatin order fruitfully to apply the more general propositions of economics,it is important to supplement them with a series of subsidiary postulatesdrawn from the examination of what may often be legitimately designatedhistorico-relative material. it is certain that unless this is done bad mis-takes are likely to be made. but it is not true that the main assumptions arehistorico-relative in the same sense. itis true that they are based upon expe- rience, that they refer to reality. but it is experience of so wide a degree of generality as to place them in quite a different class from the more properlydesignated historico-relative assumpti ons. no one will really question the universal applicability of such assumptions as the existence of scales of rel-ative valuation, or of different factors of production, or of different degrees of uncertainty regarding the future, even though there may be room fordispute as to the best mode of describing their exact logical status. and noone who has really examined the kind of deductions which can be drawnfrom such assumptions can doubt the utility of starting from this plane.itis only failure to realise this, and a too exclusive preoccupation with the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 81 subsidiary assumptions, which can lend any countenance to the view that the laws of economics are limited to certain conditions of time and space,that they are purely historical in character, and so on. if such views are inter-preted to mean merely that we must realise that the applications of generalanalysis involve a host of subsidiary assumptions of a less general nature,that before we apply our general theory to the interpretation of a particularsituation we must be sure of the facts well and good. any teacher who haswatched good students over-intoxicated with the excitement of pure theorywill agree. it may even be conceded that at times there may have been this degree of justication in the criticisms of the classical economists by thebetter sort of historian. but if, as in the history of the great methodologicalcontroversies has notoriously been the case, they are interpreted to mean that the broad conclusions springing from general analysis are as limited astheir particular applications that the generalisations of political economywereapplicable only to the state of england in the early part of the reign of queen victoria, and such-like contentions then it is clearly utterly mis-leading. there is perhaps a sense in which it is true to say that allscientic knowledge is historico-relative. perhaps in some other existence it would allbe irrelevant. but if this is so, then we need a new term to designate whatis usually called historico-relative. so with that body of knowledge which isgeneral economics. if it is historico-relative, then a new term is needed todescribe what we know as historico-relative studies. stated this way, surely the case for the point of view underlying the so- called orthodox conception of the science since the time of senior andcairnes is overwhelmingly convincing. it is difcult to see why there shouldhave been such fuss, why anybody should have thought it worth while callingthe whole position in question. and, of course, if we examine the actualhistory of the controversy it becomes abundantly clear that the case forthe attack was not primarily scientic and philosophical at all. it may havebeen the case that from time to time a sensitive historian was outragedbythe crudities of some very second-rate economist more probably by some business man or politician repeating at second-hand what he thoughtthe economists had said. it may have been the case sometimes that a purelogician has been offended by an incautious use of philosophical terms onthe part of an economist, anxious to vindicate a body of knowledge whichhe knows to be true and important. but in the main the attacks have notcome from these quarters. rather they have been political in nature. they have come from men with an axe to grind from men who wished to pursuecourses which the acknowledgment of law in the economic sphere would have suggested to be unwise. this was certainly the case with the majority

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 82 lionel robbins of the leaders of the younger historical school,16who were the spearhead of the attack on international liberalism in the bismarckian era. it is equally the case to-day with the lesser schools which adopt a similar attitude. the onlydifference between institutionalism and historismus is that historismus is much mo reinteresting. 4. if the argument which has been developed above is correct, economic analysis turns out to be as fetter has emphasised, 17the elucidation of the implications of the necessity of choice in various assumed circumstances.inpure mechanics we explore the implication of the existence of certain givenproperties of bodies. in pure economics we examine the implication of the existence of scarce means with alternative uses. as we have seen,the assumption of relative valuations is the foundation of all subsequentcomplications. itis sometimes thought, even at the present day, that this notion of relative valuation depends upon the validity of particular psychological doctrines.the borderlands of economics are the happy hunting-ground of mindsaverse to the effort of exact thought, and, in these ambiguous regions, in recent years, endless time has been devote dtoattacks on the alleged psycho- logical assumptions of economic science. psychology, it is said, advancesveryrapidly. if, therefore, economics rests upon particular psychological doctrines, there is no task more ready to hand than every ve years or so towrite sharp polemics showing that, since psychology has changed its fashion, economics needs rewriting from the foundations upwards . as might beexpected, the opportunity has not been neglected. professional economists, absorbed in the exciting task of discovering new truth, have usually disdainedtoreply: and the lay public, ever anxious to escape a necessity of recognising the implications of choice in a world of scarcity, has allowed itself to bebamboozled into believing that matters, which are in fact as little dependentoh the truth of fashionable psychology as the multiplication table, are stillopen questions on which the enlightened man, who, of course, is nothing ifnot a psychologist, must be willing to suspend judgment. unfortunately, in the past, incautious utterances on the part of economists themselves have sometimes afforded a pretext for these strictures. it is wellknown that certain of the founders of the modern subjective theory of valuedid in fact claim the authority of the doctrines of psychological hedonismas sanctions for their propositions. this was not true of the austrians. fromthe beginning the mengerian tables were constructed in terms which beggedno psychological questions. 18bohm-bawerk explicitly repudiated any afl- iation with psychological hedonism; indeed, he went to innite pains to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 83 avoid this kind of misconception.19butthe names of gossen and jevons and edgeworth, to say nothing of their english followers, are a sufcient reminder of a line of really competent economists who did make preten- sions of this sort. gossens entwicklung der gesetze des menschlichen verkehrs certainly invokes hedonistic postulates. jevons in his theory of political econ- omy prefaces his theory of utility and exchange with a theory of pleasure and pain. edgeworth commences his mathematical psychics with a section which urges the conception of man as a pleasure machine .20attemp ts have even been made to exhibit the law of diminishing marginal utility as a special caseof the weber-fechner law. 21 butitisfundamentally important to distinguish between the actual prac- tice of economists, and the logic which it implies, and their occasional ex post facto apologia. it is just this distinction which the critics of economic science fail to make. they inspect with supererogatory zeal the externalfacade, but they shrink from the intellectual labour of examining the inner structure. nor do they trouble to acquaint themselves with the more recentformulations of the theory they are attacking. no doubt this has strate-gicadvantages, for, in polemics of this kind, honest misconception is an excellent spur to effective rhetoric; and no one who was acquainted with recent value theory could honestly continue to argue that it has any essen- tial connection with psychological hedonism, or for that matter with anyother brand of fach-psychologie. ifthe psychological critics of economics had troubled to do these things they would speedily have perceived that thehedonistic trimmings of the works of jevons and his followers were inci-dental to the main structure of a theory which as the parallel developmentin vienna showed is capable of being set out and defended in absolutelynon-hedonistic terms. as we have seen already, all that is assumed in theidea of the scales of valuation is that different goods have different uses andthat these different uses have different signicances for action, such that in agivensituation one use will be preferred before another and one good before another. why the human animal attaches particular values in this sense toparticular things, is a question which we do not discuss. that is quite prop-erly a question for psychologists or perhaps even physiologists. all that weneed to assume as economists is the obvious fact that different possibilitiesoffer different incentives, and that these incentives can be arranged in orderof their intensity. the various theorems which may be derived from this fun-damental conception are unquestionably capable of explaining a manifoldof social activity incapable of explanation by any other technique. but theydo this, not by assuming some particular psychology, but by regarding the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 84 lionel robbins things which psychology studies as the data of their own deductions. here, as so often, the founders of economic science constructed something moreuniversal in its application than anything that they themselves claimed. butnowthe question arises how far even this procedure is legitimate. it should be clear from all that has been said already that although it is nottrue that the propositions of analytical economics rest upon any particular psychology, yet they do most unquestionably involve elements which are ofapsychological or perhaps better said a psychical nature. this, indeed, is explicitly recognised in the name by which they are sometimes known the subjective or psychological theory of value; and, as we have seen, it isclear that the foundation of this theory is a psychical fact, the valuations ofthe individual. in recent years, however, partly as a result of the inuence ofbehaviourism, partly as a result of a desire to secure the maximum possibleausterity in analytical exposition, there have arisen voices urging that thisframework of subjectivity should be discarded. scientic method, it is urged,demands that we should leave out of account anything which is incapableof direct observation. we may take account of demand as it shows itselfin observable behaviour in the market. but beyond this we may not go.valuation is a subjective process. we cannot observe valuation. it is therefore out of place in a scientic explanation. our theoretical constructions mustassume observable data. such, for instance, is the atttitude of professorcassel, 22and there are passages in the later work of pareto23which permit of asimilar interpretation. it is an attitude which is very frequent among those economists who have come under the inuence of behaviourist psychologyor who are terried of attack from exponents of this queer cult. atrst sight this seems very plausible. the argument that we should do nothing that is not done in the physical sciences is very seductive. but it isdoubtful whether it is really justied. after all, our business is to explaincertain aspects of conduct. and it is very questionable whether this can be done in terms which involve no psychical element. it is quite certain thatwhether it be pleasing or no to the desire for the maximum austerity, we doin fact understand termssuch as choice, indifference, preference, and the like in terms of inner experience. the idea of an end, which is fundamental toour conception of the economic, is not possible to dene in terms of externalbehaviour only. if we are to explain the relationships which arise from theexistence of a scarcity of means in relation to a multiplicity of ends, surely at least one-half of the equation, as it were, must be psychical in character. suchconsiderations would be decisive so long as it were taken for granted that the denition of the subject-matter of economics suggested in this essaywas correct. but it might be urged that they were simply an argument for

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 85 rejecting that denition and substituting one relating only to objective , observable matters, market prices, ratios of exchange, and so on. this is clearly what is implied by professor cassels procedure the celebratedausschaltung der wertlehre. butevenifwerestrict the object of economics to the explanation of such observable things as prices, we shall nd that in fact it is impossible to explainthem unless we invoke elements of a subjective or psychological nature. itis surely clear, as soon as it is stated specically, that the most elementaryprocess of price determination must depend inter alia upon what people think is going to happen to prices in the future. the demand functionswhich professor cassel thinks enable us to dispense with any subjectiveelements, must be conceived not merely as relating to prices which prevailnow, or which might prevail, on present markets, but also as relating toawhole series of prices which people expect to prevail in the future. it is obvious that what people expect to happen in the future is not susceptibleof observation by purely behaviourist methods. y et, as professor knight andothers have shown, it is absolutely essential to take such anticipations intoaccount if we are to understand at all the mechanics of economic change. it isessential for a thorough explanation of competitive prices. it is indispensablefor the most supercial explanation of monopolistic prices. it is quite easy toexhibit such anticipations as part of a general system of scales of preference. 24 butifwesuppose that such a system takes account of observable data only wedeceive ourselves. how can we observe what a man thinks is going to happen? itfollows, then, that if we are to do our job as economists, if we are to provide a sufcient explanation of matters which every denition of oursubject-matter necessarily covers, we must include psychological elements.they cannot be left out if our explanation is to be adequate. it seems, indeed,as if investigating this central problem of one of the most fully developedparts of any of the social sciences we have hit upon one of the essentialdifferences between the social and the physical sciences. it is not the businessof this essay to explore these more profound problems of methodology. butit may be suggested that if this case is at all typical and some would regardthe procedure of theory of prices as standing near the limit of proximity tothe physical sciences then the procedure of the social sciences which dealwith conduct, which is in some sense purposive, can never be completely assimilated to the procedure of the physical sciences. it is really not possibletounderstand the concepts of choice, of the relationship of means and ends, the central concepts of our science, in terms of observation of external data.the conception of purposive conduct in this sense does not necessarily

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 86 lionel robbins involve any ultimate indeterminism. but it does involve links in the chain of causal explanation which are psychical, not physical, and which are, for thatreason, not necessarily susceptible of observation by behaviourist methods. recognition of this does not in the least imply renunciation of objectivity in max webers sense. it was exactly this that max weber had in mindwhen he wrote his celebrated essays. 25all that the objective (that is to say, thewertfrei,touse max webers phrase) explanation of conduct involves is the consideration of certain data, individual valuations, etc., which arenot merely physical in character. the fact that such data are themselvesof the nature of judgments of value does not necessitate that they shouldbe valued as such. they are not judgments of value by the observer. whatis of relevance to the social sciences is, not whether individual judgmentsof value are correct in the ultimate sense of the philosophy of value, but whether they are made and whether they are essential links in the chain of causal explanation. if the argument of this section is correct, this questionmust be answered in the afrmative. ... chapter v: economic generalisations and reality ...5. but to recognise that economic laws are general in nature is not to deny the reality of the necessities they describe or to derogate from their value asameans of interpretation and prediction .onthe contrary, having carefully delimited the nature and the scope of such generalisations, we may proceedwith all the greater condence to claim for them a complete necessity within this eld. economic laws describe inevitable implications. if the data they postulate are given, then the consequences they predict necessarily follow. in this sensethey are on the same footing as other scientic laws, and as little capable ofsuspension . if, in a given situation, the facts are of a certain order, we are warranted in deducing with complete certainty that other facts which itenables us to describe are also present. t o those who have grasped theimplications of the propositions set forth in the last chapter the reasonis not far to seek. if the given situation conforms to a certain pattern,certain other features must also be present, for their presence is deducible from the pattern originally postulated. the analytic method is simply a wayof discovering the necessary consequences of complex collocations of facts consequences whose counterpart in reality is not so immediately discernible as the counterpart of the original postulates. it is an instrument for shakingout all the implications of given suppositions. granted the correspondence

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 87 of its original assumptions and the facts, its conclusions are inevitable and inescapable. all this becomes particularly clear if we consider the procedure of dia- grammatic analysis. suppose, for example, we wish to exhibit the effects on price of the imposition of a small tax. we make certain suppositions asregards the elasticity of demand, certain suppositions as regards the cost functions, embody these in the usual diagram, and we can at once read off , as it were, the effects on the price. 26they are implied in the original suppo- sitions. the diagram has simply made explicit the concealed implications. itis this inevitability of economic analysis which gives it its very con- siderable prognostic value. it has been emphasised sufciently already thateconomic science knows no way of predicting out of the blue the congura-tion of the data at any particular point of time. it cannot predict changes ofvaluations. but, given the data in a particular situation, it can draw inevitableconclusions as to their implications. and if the data remain unchanged, these implications will certainly be realised. they must be, for they are implied inthe presence of the original data. itis just here that we can perceive yet a further function for empirical investigation. it can bring to light the changing facts which make predictionin any given situation possible. as we have seen, it is most improbable thatit can ever discover the law of their change, for the data are not subject tohomogeneous causal inuences. but it can put us in possession of infor-mation which is relevant at the particular moment concerned. it can giveus some idea of the relative magnitude of the different forces operative. itcan afford a basis for enlightened conjectures with regard to potential direc-tions of change. and this unquestionably is one of the main uses of appliedstudies not to unearth empirical laws in an area where such laws are notto be expe cted, but to provide from moment to moment some knowledge of the varying data on which, in the given situation, prediction can be based. itcannot supersede formal analysis. but it can suggest in different situationswhat formal analysis is appropriate, and it can provide at that moment some content for the formal categories. of course, if other things do not remain unchanged, the consequences predicted do not necessarily follow. t his elementary platitude, necessarily implicit in anyscientic prediction, needs esp ecially to be kept in the fore- ground of attention when discussing this kind of prognosis. the statesman who said ceteris p aribus be damned! has a large and enthusiastic following among the critics of economics! nobody in his senses would hold that thelaws of mechanics were invalidated if an experiment designed to illustrate

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 88 lionel robbins them were interrupted by an earthquake. y et a substantial majority of the lay public, and a good many soi-disant economists as well, are continually criticising well-established propositions on grounds hardly less slender.27a protective tariff is imposed on the importation of commodities, the con- ditions of whose domestic production make it certain that, if other thingsremain unchanged, the effect of such protection will be a rise in price. for quite adventitious reasons, the progress of technique, the lowering of theprice of raw materials, wage reductions, of what not, costs are reduced andthe price does not rise. in the eyes of the lay public and institutionalisteconomists the generalisations of economics are invalidated. the laws ofsupply and demand are suspended. the bogus claims of a science whichdoes not regard the facts are laid bare. and so on and so forth. y et, whoeverasked of the practitioners of any other science that they should predict thecomplete course of an uncontrolled history? now,no doubt, the very fact that events in the large are uncontrolled, 28 that the fringe of given data is so extensive and so exposed to inuence fromunexpected quarters, must make the task of prediction, however carefully safeguarded, extremely hazardous. in many situations, small changes in par-ticular groups of data are so liable to be counterbalanced by other changeswhich may be occurring independently and simultaneously, that the prog-nostic value of the knowledge of operative tendencies is small. but there arecertain broad changes, usually involving many lines of expenditure or pro- duction at once, where a knowledge of implications is a very rm basis forconjectures of strong probability. this is particularly the case in the sphere of monetary phenomena. there can be no question that a quite elementary knowledge of the quantity theory was of immense prognostic value duringthe war and the disturbances which followed. if the speculators who boughtgerman marks, after the war, in the condent expectation that the markwould automatically resume its old value, had been aware of as much of the theory of money as was known, say, to sir william petty, they wouldhave known that what they were doing was ridiculous. similarly, it becomesmore and more clear, for purely analytical reasons, that, once the signs ofamajor boom in trade have made their appearance, the coming of slump and depression is almost certain; though when it will come and how longit will last are not matters which are predictable, since they depend uponhuman volitions occurring after the indications in question have appeared. so, too, in the sphere of the labour market, it is quite certain that some typesof wage policy must result in unemployment if other things remain equal:and knowledge of how the other things must change in order that thisconsequence may be avoided makes it very often possible to predict with

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 89 considerable condence the actual results of given policies. these things have been veried again and again in practice. t oday it is only he who is blind because he does not want to see who is prepared to deny them. ifcertain conditions are present, then, in the absence of new complications, certain consequences are inevitable. ... chapter vi: the signicance of economic science ...2. it is sometimes thought that certain developments in modern eco- nomic theory furnish by themselves aset of norms capable of providing a basis for political practice. the law of diminishing marginal utility is heldtoprovide a criterion of all forms of p olitical and social activity affecting dis- tribution. anything conducive to greater equality, which does not adversely affect production, is said to be justied by this law; anything conducivetoinequality, condemned. these propositions have received the support of very high authority. they are the basis of much that is written on thetheory of public nance. 29noless an authority than professor cannan has invoked them, to justify the ways of economists to fabian socialists.30they have received the widest countenance in numberless works on applied eco-nomics. it is safe to say that the great majority of english economists acceptthem as axiomatic. y et with great difdence i venture to suggest that theyare in fact entirely unwarranted by any doctrine of scientic economics, andthat outside this country they have very largely ceased to hold sway. the argument by which these propositions are supported is familiar: but it is worth while repeating it explicitly in order to show the exact points atwhich it is defective. the law of diminishing marginal utility implies thatthe more one has of anything the less one values additional units thereof.therefore, it is said, the more real income one has, the less one valuesadditional units of income. therefore the marginal utility of a rich mansincome is less than the marginal utility of a poor mans income. therefore, iftransfers are made, and these transfers do not appreciably affect production, total utility will be increased. therefore, such transfers are economically justied . quod erat demonstrandum. atrst sight the plausibility of the argument is overwhelming. but on closer inspection it is seen to be me rely specious. it rests upon an exten- sion of the conception of diminishing marginal utility into a eld in whichit is entirely illegitimate. the law of diminishing marginal utility hereinvoked does not follow in the least from the fundamental conception ofeconomic goods; and it makes assumptions which, whether they are true orfalse, can never be veried by observation o rintrospection. the proposition

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 90 lionel robbins weare examining begs the great metaphysical question of the scientic com- parability of different individual experiences. this deserves further exami- nation. the law of diminishing marginal utility, as we have seen, is derived from the conception of a scarcity of means in relation to the ends whichthey serve. it assumes that, for each individual, goods can be ranged inorder of their signicance for conduct; and that, in the sense that it will bepreferred, we can say that one use of a good is more important than another.proceeding on this basis, we can compare the order in which one individual may be supposed to prefer certain alternatives with the order in which theyare preferred by another individual. in this way it is possible to build up acomplete theory of exchange. 31 butitisone thing to assume that scales can be drawn up showing the order in which an individual will prefer a series of alternatives, and to comparethe arrangement of one such individual scale with another. it is quite adifferent thing to assume that behind such arrangements lie magnitudeswhich themselves can be compared. this is not an assumption which needanywhere be made in modern economic analysis, and it is an assumptionwhich is of an entirely different kind from the assumption of individual scalesof relative valuation. the theory of exchange assumes that ican compare the importance to me of bread at 6d. per loaf and 6d. spent on other alternatives presented by the opportunities of the market. and it assumes that the order ofmypreferences thus exhibited can be compared with the order of preferences of the baker. but it does notassume that, at any point, it is necessary to compare the satisfaction which iget from the spending of 6d. on bread with the satisfaction which the baker gets by receiving it. that comparison is a comparison of an entirely different nature. it is a comparison which isnever needed in the theory of equilibrium and which is never implied by theassumptions of that theory. it is a comparison which necessarily falls outsidethe scope of any positive science. t o state that as preference stands abovebs in order of importance is entirely different from stating that a prefersntomandbp r e f e r s nand min different order. it involves an element of conventional valuation. hence it is essentially normative. it has no place in pure science. ifthis is still obscure, the following consideration should be decisive. suppose that a difference of opinion were to arise about as preferences. suppose that i thought that, at certain prices, he preferred ntom,and you thought that, at the same prices, he preferred mton.itwould be easy to settle our differences in a purely scientic manner. either we could ask atotell us. or, if we refused to believe that introspection on as part was

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 91 possible, we could expose him to the stimuli in question and observe his behaviour. either test would be such as to provide the basis for a settlementof the difference of opinion. butsuppose that we differed about the satisfaction derived by a from an income of 1,000, and the satisfaction derived by b from an income of twicethat magnitude. asking them would provide no solution. supposing theydiffered. a might urge that he had more satisfaction than b at the margin.while b might urge that, on the contrary, he had more satisfaction than a. wedo not need to be slavish behaviourists to realise that here is no scientic evidence. there is no means of testing the magnitude of as satisfaction as compared with bs. ifwetested the state of their blood-streams, that would be atest of blood, not satisfaction. introsp ection does not enable a to measure what is going on in bs mind, nor b to measure what is going on in as. thereis no way of comparing the satisfactions of different people. now,of course, in daily life we do continually assume that the compar- ison can be made. but the very diversity of the assumptions actually madeat different times and in different places is evidence of their conventionalnature. in western democracies we assume for certain purposes that menin similar circumstances are capable of equal satisfactions. just as for pur-poses of justice we assume equality of responsibility in similar situations asbetween legal subjects, so for purposes of public nance we agree to assumeequality of capacity for experiencing satisfaction from equal incomes in sim-ilar circumstances as between economic subjects. but, although it may beconvenient to assume this, there is no way of proving that the assumption rests on ascertainable fact. and, indeed, if the representative of some other civilisation were to assure us that we were wrong, that members of his caste(or his race) were capable of experiencing ten times as much satisfactionfrom given incomes as members of an inferior caste (or an inferior race),wecould not refute him. we might poke fun at him. we might are up with indignation, and say that his valuation was hateful, that it led to civil strife, unhappiness, unjust privilege, and so on and so forth. but we couldnot show that he was wrong in any objective sense, any more than we couldshow that we were right. and since in our hearts we do not regard differentmens satisfactions from similar means as equally valuable, it would really berather silly if we continued to pretend that the justication for our scheme of things was in any way scientic. itcan be justied on grounds of general con- venience. or it can be justied by app eal to ultimate standards of obligation. butitcannot be justied by appeal to any kind of positive science. hence the extension of the law of diminishing marginal utility, pos- tulated in the propositions we are examining, is illegitimate. and the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 92 lionel robbins arguments based upon it therefore are la cking in scientic foundation recog- nition of this no doubt involves a substantial curtailment of the claims of muchof what now assumes the status of scientic generalisation in current discussions of applied economics. the conception of diminishing relativeutility (the convexity downwards of the indifference curve) does not jus-tify the inference that transferences from the rich to the poor will increasetotal satisfaction. it does not tell us that a graduated income tax is less injurious to the social dividend than a nongraduated poll tax. indeed, allthat part of the theory of public nance which deals with social utilitymust assume a different signicance. interesting as a development of an ethical postulate, it does not at all follo wfromthe positive assumptions of pure theory. it is simply the accidental deposit of the historical associationof english economics with utilitarianism: and both the utilitarian postu-lates from which it derives and the analytical economics with which it hasbeen associated will be the better and the more convincing if this is clearlyrecognised. 32 butsupposing this were not so. suppose that we could bring ourselves to believe in the positive status of these conventional assumptions, the com-mensurability of different experiences, the equality of capacity for satisfac-tion, etc. and suppose that, proceeding on this basis, we had succeeded inshowing that certain policies had the effect of increasing social utility , even so it would be totally illegitimate to argue that such a conclusion by itselfwarranted the inference that these policies ought to be ca rried ou t. for such an inference would beg the whole question whether the increase of satis-faction in this sense was socially obligatory. 33andthere is nothing within the body of economic generalisations, even thus enlarged by the inclusion of elements of conventional valuation, which affords any means of decidingthis question. propositions involving ought are on an entirely differentplane from propositions involving is . ... 5. but what, then, is the signicance of economic science? we have seen thatit provides, within its own structure of generalisations, no norms which arebinding in practice. it is incapable of deciding as between the desirability ofdifferent ends. it is fundamentally distinct from ethics. wherein, then, doesits unquestionable signicance consist? surely it consists in just this, that, when we are faced with a choice between ultimates, it enables us to choose with full awareness of the implications ofwhat we are choosing. faced with the problem of deciding between this andthat, we are not entitled to look to economics for the ultimate decision. thereis nothing in economics which relieves usof the obligation to choose. there

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 93 is nothing in any kind of science which can decide the ultimate problem of preference. but, to be completely rational, we must know what it is we prefer.wemust be aware of the implications of the alternatives. for rationality in choice is nothing more and nothing less than choice with complete awareness of the alternatives rejected. and it is just here that economics acquires itspractical signicance. it can make clear to us the implications of the differentends we may choose. it makes it possible for us to will with knowledge ofwhat it is we are willing. it makes it p ossible for us to select a system of ends which are mutually consistent with each other. 34 anexample or two should make this quite clear. let us start with a case in which the implications of one act of choice are elucidated. we may revertonce more to an example we have already considered the imposition ofaprotective tariff. we have seen already that there is nothing in scientic economics which warrants our describing such a policy as good or bad.wehave decided that, if such a policy is decided upon with full conscious- ness of the sacrices involved, there is no justication for describing it asuneconomical. the deliberate choice by a body of citizens acting collec-tively to frustrate, in the interests of ends such as defence, the preservationof the countryside, and so on, their several choices as consumers, cannotbe described as uneconomical or irrational, if it is done with full awarenessof what is being done. but this will not be the case unless the citizens inquestion are fully conscious of the objective implications of the step they aretaking. and in an extensive modern society it is only as a result of intricateeconomic analysis that they may be placed in possession of this knowledge.the great majority, even of educated pe ople, called upon to decide upon the desirability of, let us say, protection for agriculture, think only of the effectsof such measures on the protected industry. they see that such measuresare likely to benet the industry, and hence they argue that the measuresare good. but, of course, as every rst year student knows, it is only herethat the problem begins. t o judge the further repercussions of the tariff ananalytical technique is necessary. this is why in countries where the levelof education in economics is not high, there is a constant tendency to theapproval of more and more protective tariffs. noristhe utility of such analysis to be regarded as conned to decisions on isolated measures such as the imposition of a single tariff. it enables ustojudge more complicated systems of policy. it enables us to see what sets of ends are compatible with each other and what are not, and upon whatconditions such compatibility is dependent. and, indeed, it is just here that the possession of some such technique becomes quite indispensable if policyis to be rational. it may be just possible to will rationally the achievement

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 94 lionel robbins of particular social ends overriding individual valuations without much assistance from analysis. the case of a subsidy to protect essential foodsupplies is a case in point. it is almost impossible to conceive the carryingthrough of more elaborate policies without the aid of such an instrument. 35 wemay take an example from the sphere of monetary policy. it is an unescapable deduction from the rst principles of monetary theory that,in a world in which conditions are changing at different rates in differentmonetary areas, it is impossible to achieve at once stable prices and stableexchanges. 36the two ends in this case the ends are quite obviously subordinate to other major norms of policy are logically incompatible.youmaytryfor one or you may try for the other it is not certain that price stability is either permanently attainable or conducive to equilibriumgenerally but you cannot rationally try for both. if you do, there must be abreakdown. these conclusions are well known to all economists. y et withoutsome analytical apparatus how few of us would perceive the incompatibilityof the ends in question! andeventhis is a narrow example. without economic analysis it is not possible rationally to choose between alternative systems of society. we have seen already that if we regard a society which permits inequality of incomesas an evil in itself, and an equalitarian society as presenting an end to bepursued above all other things, then it is illegitimate to regard such a pref-erence as uneconomic. but it is not possible to regard it as rational unless itis formulated with a full consciousness of the nature of the sacrice whichis thereby involved. and we cannot do this unless we understand, not onlythe essential nature of the capitalistic mechanism, but also the necessaryconditions and limitations to which the ty peof society proposed as a sub- stitute would be subject. it is not rational to will a certain end if one isnot conscious of what sacrice the achievement of that end involves. and,in this supreme weighing of alternatives, only a complete awareness of theimplications of modern economic analysis can confer the capacity to judgeratio nally. but, if this is so, what need is there to claim any larger status for economic science? is it not the burden of our time that we do not realise what we aredoing? are not most of our difculties due to just this fact, that we will endswhich are incompatible, not because we wish for deadlock, but becausewedo not realise their incompatibility. it may well be that there may exist differences as regards ultimate ends in modern society which render some conict inevitable. but it is clear that many of our most pressing difculties arise, not for this reason, but because our aims are not co-ordinated. asconsumers we will cheapness, as producers we choose security. we value

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 95 one distribution of factors of production as private spenders and savers. aspublic citizens we sanction arrangements which frustrate the achieve- ment of this distribution. we call for cheap money and lower prices, fewerimports and a larger volume of trade. 37the different will-organisations in society, although composed of the same individuals, formulate differentpreferences. everywhere our difculties seem to arise, not so much fromdivisions between the different members of the body politic, as from, as itwere,split personalities on the part of each one of them. 38 tosuch a situation, economics brings the solvent of knowledge. it enables us to conceive the far-reaching implications of alternative possibilities ofpolicy. it does not, and it cannot, enable us to evade the necessity of choos-ing between alternatives. but it does make it possible for us to bring ourdifferent choices into harmony. it cannot remove the ultimate limitationson human action. but it does make it possible within these limitations toact consistently. it serves for the inhabitant of the modern world with itsendless interconnections and relationships as an extension of his perceptiveapparatus. it provides a technique of rational action. this, then, is a further sense in which economics can be truly said to assume rationality in human society. it makes no pretence, as has beenalleged so often, that action is nec essarily rational in the sense that the ends pursued are not mutually inconsistent. there is nothing in its generalisationswhich necessarily implies reective de liberation in ultimate valuation. it relies upon no assumption that individuals will always act rationally. but it does depend for its practical raison d etreupon the assumption that it is desirable that they should do so. it does assume that, within the bounds ofnecessity, it is desirable to choose ends which can be achieved harmoniously. andthusinthe last analysis economics does depend, if not for its exis- tence, at least for its signicance, on an ultimate valuation the afrmation that rationality and ability to choose with knowledge is desirable. if irra-tionality, if the surrender to the blind force of external stimuli and unco-ordinated impulse at every moment is a good to be preferred above all others,then it is true the raison d etreof economics disappears. and it is the tragedy of our generation, red with fratricidal strife and betrayed almost beyondbelief by those who should have been its intellectual leaders, that there havearisen those who would uphold this ultimate negation, this escape fromthe tragic necessities of choice which has become conscious. with all suchthere can be no argument. the revolt against reason is essentially a revoltagainst life itself. but for all those who still afrm more positive values, thatbranch of knowledge which, above all others, is the symbol and safeguardof rationality in social arrangements, must, in the anxious days which are

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 96 lionel robbins tocome, by very reason of this menace to that for which it stands, possess a peculiar and a heightened signicance. notes 1.itis perhaps worth emphasising the signicance of this qualication. the appli- cation of technically similar means to the achievement of qualitatively similarends at different times constitutes alternative uses of these means. unless this is clearly realised, one of the most important types of economic action is over-looked. 2.this may seem an unnecessary renement, and in the rst edition of this essay ileft it out for that reason. but the condition that there exists a hierarchy of endsis so important in the theory of value that it seems better to state it explicitlyeven at this stage. see chapter iv ., section 2. 3.cp. sch onfeld, grenznutzen und wirtschaftsrechnung ,p .1 ;h a n sm a y e r , unter- suchungen zu dem grundgesetze der wirtschaftlichen wertrechnung (zeitschrift fur volkswirtschaft und sozialpolitik ,bd. 2, p. 123). itshould be sufciently clear that it is not time as such which is scarce, but rather the potentialities of ourselves viewed as instruments. t o speak of scarcity of time is simply a metaphorical way of invoking this rather abstract concept. 4.itshould be clear that there is no disharmony between the conception of end here employed, the terminus of particular lines of conduct in acts of nal con-sumption, and the conception involved when it is said that there is but one endof activity the maximising of satisfaction, utility , or what not. our endsare to be regarded as proximate to the achievement of this ultimate end. if themeans are scarce they cannot all be achieved, and according to the scarcity ofmeans and their relative importance the achievement of some ends has to berelinquished. 5.meng er,grunds utze der volkswirtschaftslehre ,lteau., pp. 5170; mises, die gemeinwirtschaft ,p p .9 8 seq.;f e t t e r , economic principles ,c h . i.; strigl, die okonomischen kategorien und die organisation der wirtschaft, passim ;m a y e r , op. cit. 6.see below, section 4, and chapter v ., section 3. 7.foranexample of such a derivation reaching substantially similar results, see strigl, op. cit., pp. 121 seq. 8.ifany reader of this book has any doubt of the evidence of the facts, he should consult the standard work on recent british experiments in such measures, british food control ,bysir william beveridge. 9.the vulgar notion that the safe methods on political subjects are those of baco- nian induction that the true guide is not general reasoning but specic expe-rience will one day be quoted as among the most unequivocal marks of a low state of the speculative faculties of any age in which it is accredited. ...whoever makes use of an argument of this kind ...should be sent back to learn the ele- ments of some one of the more easy physical sciences. such reasoners ignore thefact of plurality of causes in the very case which affords the most signal exampleof it (john stuart mill, logic ,chapter x., paragraph 8).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 97 10.see rickert, op. cit., pp. 78101, diegrenzen der naturwissenschaftlichen begriffsbildung, passim. 11.on all this see the illuminating observations of dr. strigl, die okonomischen kategorien und die organisation der wirtschaft ,pp.85121. 12.see robinson, economics of imperfect competition ,pp.3301. i myself rst learnt this way of putting things from a conversation with professor mises manyyears ago. but so far as i know mrs. robinson is the rst to put matters so succinctly and clearly in print: i think that mrs. robinsons book will have donemuchtoconvince many hitherto sceptics of the utility and signicance of the kind of abstract reasoning from very simple postulates which is the subject ofthe present discussion. 13.see, e.g.,s chneider, theorie des produktion, passim. 14.see knight, risk, uncertainty, and prot ;h i c ks,the theory of prot (economica , no.31, pp. 17090). 15.see mises, the theory of money ,pp.147 and 200; lavington, the english capital mark et,pp.2935; hicks, asuggestion for simplifying the theory of money (economica ,1934, pp. 120). 16.cp. mises, kritik des interventionismus ,pp.5590. 17.economic principles ,pp.ix and 1221. 18.see menger, grunds atze,1au., pp. 77152. 19.seepositive theorie des kapitals ,4eauage, pp. 23246. 20.mathematical psychics ,p .1 5 . 21.forarefutation of this view, see max weber, die gre nznutzenlehre und das psychophysische grundgesetz (archiv f ur sozialwissenschaft und sozialpolitik , vol. xxix., 1909). 22.the theory of social economy ,first english edition, vol. i., pp. 501. 23.notably in the article on economie math ematique in the encyclop edie des sciences math ematiques ,paris, 1911. 24.see, e.g.,h i c ks,gleichgewicht und konjunktur (zeitschrift f ur national okonomie , vol. iv., pp. 44155). 25.max weber, die objectivit at socialwissenschaftlichen und socialpolitischen erkenntnis: der sinn der wertfreiheit der soziologischen und okonomischen wissenschaft ingesammelte aufsatze zur wissenschaftlehre. 26.see, e.g.,dalton, public finance ,2nd edition, p. 73. 27.see, e.g.,the various statistical refutations of the quantity theory of money which have appeared in recent years. on all these the comment of t orrens on tooke is all that need be said. the history of prices may be regarded as a psychological study. mr. t ooke commenced his labours as a follower of hornerand ricardo, and derived reected lustre from an alliance with those celebratednames; but his capacity for collecting contemporaneous facts preponderatingover his perceptive and logical faculties, his accumulation of facts involved him in a labyrinth of error. failing to perceive that a theoretical principle, althoughit may irresistibly command assent under all circumstances coinciding with thepremises from which it is deduced, must be applied with due limitation andcorrection in all cases not coinciding with the premises, he fell into a total mis- conception of the proposition advanced by adam smith, and imputed to that high authority the absurdity of maintaining that variations in the quantity of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 98 lionel robbins money cause the money values of all commodities to vary in equal proportions, while the values of commodities, in relation to each other, are varying in unequalproportions. reasonings derived from this extraordinary misconception nec-essarily led to extraordinary conclusions. having satised himself that adamsmith had correctly established as a principle universally true that variations in the purchasing power of money cause the prices of all commodities to vary inequal proportions, and nding, as he pursued his investigations into the phe-nomena of the market at different periods, no instances in which an expansionor contraction of the circulation caused the prices of commodities to rise or fallin an equal ratio, he arrived by a strictly logical inference from the premises thusillogically assumed, at his grand discovery that no increase of the circulatingmedium can have the effect of increasing prices ( the principles and operation ofsir robert peels act of 1844 explained and defended ,1st edition, p. 75). 28.the alleged advantage of economic planning namely, that it enables greater certainty with regard to the future depends upon the assumption that under planning the present controlling forces, the choices of individual spenders and savers, are themselves brought under the control of the planners. the para-doxtherefore arises that either the planner is destitute of the instrument of calculating the ends of the community he intends to serve, or, if he restores theinstrument, he removes the raison d etreof the plan . of course, the dilemma does not arise if he thinks himself capable of interpreting those ends or what is muchmore probable if he has no intention of serving any other ends but those hethinks appropriate. strange to say this not infrequently happens. scratch a would-be planner and you usually nd a would-be dictator. 29.see, e.g.,edgeworth, the pure theory of taxation (papers relating to political economy ,vol. ii., pp. 63 seq.). 30.seeeconomics and socialism (the economic outlook ,pp.5962). 31.so many have been the misconceptions based upon an imperfect understanding of this generalisation that dr. hicks has suggested that its present name bediscarded altogether and the title law of increasing rate of substitution beadopted in its place. personally, i prefer the established terminology, but it isclear that there is much to be said for the suggestion. 32.cp. davenport, value and distribution ,pp.301 and 571; benham, economic welfare (economica ,june, 1930, pp. 17387); m. st. braun, theorie der staatli- chen wirtschaftspolitik ,pp.414. even professor irving fisher, anxious to provide ajustication for his statistical method for measuring marginal utility , can nd no better apology for his procedure than that philosophic doubt is right andproper, but the problems of life cannot and do not wait ( economic essays in honour of john bates clark ,p.180). it does not seem to me that the problem of measuring marginal utility as between individuals is a particular pressingproblem. but whether this is so or not, the fact remains that professor fishersolves his problem only by making a conventional assumption. and it doesnot seem that it anywhere aids the solution of practical problems to pretendthat conventional assumptions have scientic justication. it does not make meamore docile democrat to be told that iam equally capable of experiencing satisfaction as my neighbour; it lls me with indignation. but i am perfectly willing to accept the statement that it is convenient toassume that this is the case.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 the nature and signicance of economic science 99 iamquite willing to accept the argument indeed, as distinct from believers in the racial or proletarian myths, i very rmly believe that, in modern conditions,societies which proceed on any other assumption have an inherent instability.butwearepast the days when democracy could be made acceptable by the pretence that judgments of value are judgments of scientic fact. i am afraidthat the same strictures apply to the highly ingenious methods for measuring marginal utility of professor ragnar frisch. 33.psychological hedonism in so far as it went beyond the individual may have involved a non-scientic assumption, but it was not by itself a necessary justi-cation for ethical hedonism. 34.itis perhaps desirable to emphasise that the consistency which is made possible is a consistency of achievement, not a consistency of ends. the achievement ofone end may be held to be inconsistent with the achievement of another, eitheron the plane of, valuation, or on the plane of objective possibility. thus it maybe held to be ethically inconsistent to serve two masters at once. it is objectivelyinconsistent to arrange to be with each of them at the same time, at differentplaces. it is the latter kind of inconsistency in the sphere of social policy whichscientic economics should make it possible to eliminate. 35.all this should be a sufcient answer to those who continually lay it down thatsocial life is too complex a matter to be judged by economic analysis . it is because social life is so complicated that economic analysis is necessary if weare to understand even a part of it. it is usually those who talk most about thecomplexity of life and the insusceptibility of human behaviour to any kind of logical analysis who prove to have the most simpliste intellectual and emotional make-up. he who has really glimpsed the irrational in the springs of humanaction will have no fear that it can ever be killed by logic. 36.see keynes, at r a c to n monetary reform ,pp.1545; also an interesting paper by mr. d .h .r o b ertson, how do w ewant gold to behave? reprinted in the international gold problem ,pp.1846. 37.cf. m. s. braun, theorie der staatlichen wirtschaftspolitik ,p .5 . 38.inthis way economic analysis reveals st ill further examples of a phenomenon towhich attention has often been drawn in recent discussion of the theory of sovereignty in public law. see figgis, churches in the modern state ;maitland, introduction to gierkes political theories of the middle ages ;laski, the problem ofsovereignty, authority in the modern state.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 four economics and human action frank knight frank knight (18851972) was born in atlanta and received his ph.d. in economics from cornell. he taught at cornell and at the university of iowa, but he is particu-larly associated with the university of chicago, where he trained a whole generationof prominent economists. knight not only made major contributions to economictheory, but he was a social philosopher as well, deeply concerned with the problemsof individual liberty. his insistence on the importance of uncertainty and on thepeculiarities of the human subject matter of economics is still worth careful con-sideration by all those interested in economic methodology. knights essay, valueand price, is reprinted here in an abridged form. the rst third of the essay, whichis mostly historical background, is omitted. ingeneral, if explanation of economic behaviour in terms of motives is tobe abandoned, a number of alternative possibilities are open. perhaps the simplest is the one analogous to a trend in physics to do away with allexplanation and merely to formulate empirical laws; the result is statistical economic theory, having for its content the objective phenomena of com-modities and prices alone. a second line of development away from the typesof value theory represented by classical or utility economics centres aroundthe emphasis on the social control of economic life with clearly impliedadvocacy of such control. in the past generation this trend has been mostmarked in germany (socialism of the chair), in england (fabianism andleft wing liberalism), and in the united states (as a phase of institutionalisteconomics). the third alternative to explanatory theory is that of treating economic phenomena as essentially historical, which, of course, must be done in anycase if the concrete content of economic life at a particular time and place is tobe explained. historical economics again subdivides into as many varieties as from the ethics of competition and other essays ,b yf r ank knight. new y ork and london: harper and brothers, 1935. copyright c circlecopyrtby fr ank knight. 100

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 economics and human action 101 there are basic conceptions of history and historical method. two such vari- eties stand out. the rst treats history as far as possible in objective, empiricalterms, and may use statistics for the discovery and analysis of trends; log- ically this procedure contrasts sharply with the search for repetitive laws,analogous to those of natural science, which characterizes statistical eco-nomic theory, but in practice the two conceptions run together in the workof statistical economists. the second variety of historical economics usesthe more familiar humanistic conceptions of political and social history individual ambitions, efforts, and failures in a given social-psychologicalsetting. it represents essentially a rev ival or continuation of the historical schools of the nineteenth century, especially prominent in germany. in sofar as it arrives at generalization, it may be described as institutional eco-nomics, a term which has come into use particularly in the united states.the related contemporary movement in the german literature is referred toas neohistorical or sociological economics, with sombart and max weberas its most prominent leaders. atthe root of the differences and disputes between the old and the new economics as well as among the three new lines of theoretical developmentnoted above are two problems: the relation between description and expla-nation and the relation between statement of fact and critical evaluation.the rst, inescapable in any thinking about human conduct, is fundamen-tally the problem of the reality of choice, or freedom of the will. it involvesthe essence of the value problem in the sense of individual values, and isat bottom the problem of the relation between individual man and nature.the second basic problem has to do with the relation between the individualman and society. the crucial fact in connection with the rst problem is that, if motive or end in any form is granted any real role in conduct, it cannot be thatof a cause in the sense of causality in natural science. this is the supremelimitation alike of statistical and historical economics. for, if motive or end isused to explain behaviour, it must in turn be brought into the same relationwith events and conditions antecedent to it, and then the motive becomes superuous; the behaviour will be fully accounted for by these antecedents.motive cannot be treated as a natural event. a fundamental contrast between cause and effect in nature and end and means in human behaviour is of theessence of the facts which set the problem of interpreting behaviour. thereseems to be no possibility of making human problems real, without seeingin human activity an element of effort, contingency, and, most crucially,of error, which must for the same reasons be assumed to be absent fromnatural processes.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 102 frank knight thus motive or intent forces itself into any relevant discussion of human activity. but the subject of behaviour cannot be simplied even to the pointof reducing it to a dualism. at least three basic principles must be introducedinto its interpretation. the typical human action is explained in part bynatural causality, in part by an intention or desire which is an absolutedatum and is thus a fact although not a natural event or condition, and inpart by an urge to realize values which cannot be reduced entirely to factualdesires because this urge has no literally describable objects. interpretationin terms of factual desires is the procedure of economics as represented by thebulk of the theoretical literature, in so far as it is objective in outlook. y et thissecond principle of explanation is perhaps the most vulnerable of the three.itis doubtful whether any desire is really absolute, whether there exists any desire that does not look to achievement of some change in a growingsystem of meaning and values; this is a different thing from changes inphysical nature, even though rearrangements in physical nature are the onlymeans by which values can be realized. every act, in the economic sense,changes the conguration of matter in space. but this does not exclude the possibility of acts which change meaning and values without changingnatural conguration, since reection may yield new insight and effect achange of personal tastes. more fundamentally, it is doubtful whether one conguration is in itself preferable to another. people report and feel two different types of motivation for their acts. there is the wish or preference which is treated by the actor and by out-siders as nal, as a brute fact. on the other hand, people make value judg-ments of various sorts in explanation of their acts; and explanation runsinto justication. in other words, no one can really treat motive objectivelyor describe a motive without implications of good and bad. thus not onlydo men desire more or less distinctly from valuing, but they desire becausethey value and also value without desiring. indeed, the bulk of human valua-tions, in connection with truth, beauty ,and morals, are largely or altogether independent of desire for any concrete thing or result. that individual eco-nomic motivation itself typically involves some valuation and not merelydesire is established by two other considerations: rst, what is chosen inan economic transaction is generally wanted as a means to something else,which involves a judgment that it really is a means to the result in question;and, second, what is ultimately wanted for its own sake can rarely, if ever,nally be described in terms of physical conguration, but must be denedin relation to a universe of meanings and values. thus there is an element ofvaluation in the notion of efciency in the realization of a given end; and,in addition, the real end contains as an element a value concept.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 economics and human action 103 the dual conception found in motivation is reected also in the more narrowly economic concept of value. the latter contains denitely morethan the notion of a quality measured by price; it is always imperfectlymeasured under actual conditions. price tends to coincide with value, butthe notion of value also involves a norm to which price would conformunder some ideal conditions. this norm includes two ideas: that of a goalaimed at but only more or less approximately realized because of errorsof various kinds (which tend to be corrected); and that of a correct goalof action in contrast with incorrect goals as well as the actual goal. in asociety based upon competition as an accepted principle, the competitiveprice, or price equal to necessary costs of production, is the true value inboth senses; aberrations are to be attributed to two sets of cases accidentalmiscalculations, and wrong objectives of action. this statement overlooks, ofcourse, the existence of different technical conceptions of competitive price relative to the short run or local conditions; and a deeper ethical criticism may condemn given conditions other than the tastes of consumers whichx competitive price, especially the distribution of income and economicpower. tomake the main point clear it is necessary to notice the difference in the conception of ideal conditions in economics and in mechanics. in thelatter eld the most notable of the ideal conditions is the absence of friction;an apparently similar conception of ideal conditions is one of the familiarfeatures, almost a cliche, in economic theory. as generalized descriptionthe conception of perfect competition, reached by abstraction from the fea-tures of the economic situation which make competition imperfect, is likethe conceptions of frictionless mechanics and is similarly justied. but toassume that the specic thing abstracted from in the theory of perfect com-petition bears the same relation to behaviour as does friction to mechanicalprocess would be utterly misleading. friction in mechanics involves a trans-formation of energy from one form to another, according to a law just asrigidand a conservation principle just as denite as the law and conserva- tion principle which hold good for mechanical changes where no energydisappears. there is nothing corresponding to any of this in the economicprocess. what is abstracted in equilibrium price theory is the fact of error ineconomic behaviour. perfect competition is, among other things irrelevanthere, errorless competition; fundamentally it is not comparable to a fric-tionless machine. the familiar tendency of competition to conform to thetheoretical ideal is no mere possibility of experimental approximation, but areal tendency in so far as men are supposed to endeavour with some success tolearn to behave intelligently. it cannot be treated as a tendency toward

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 104 frank knight an objective result, but only as a tendency to conformity with the intent of behaviour, which intent cannot be measured or identied or dened in termsof any experimental data. the ideal conditions of economics involve perfectvaluation in a limited sense, perfec teconomic behaviour which assumes the end or intention as given. the correctness of the intention is an ethicalquestion, from which the economist abstracts just as he abstracts from errorwhich causes the behaviour to end otherwise than according to the intent. thus far two levels of interpretation of economic behaviour have been discussed. the rst is that at which behaviour is reduced as far as possible toprinciples of regularity by statistical procedure; it may or may not be thoughtconvenient to impute behaviour to some force, but if it is so adjudged, the force must be assumed to correspond with the behaviour observed. thesecond is the interpretation of behaviour in terms of motivation, whichmust centre on the difference between motive and act and on the fact of error. it is at the third level of interpretation that the intentional end ofaction itself is submitted to valuation or criticism from some point of view.herethe relation between individual and society, the second main problem suggested above, and the concept of value as related to social policy becomecentral topics of discussion. infact even at the second level two forms of social reference must be recognized: the individual ends as they are given are chiey social in origin and content; and in societies in which economic thinking has any relevancethere is a large social-ethical acceptance and approval of individual motiva-tion in the abstract. modern society, for instance, has accepted the right andeven the duty of the individual to pursue his own ends within wide limits; in other words, individual liberty itself is a social value and not merely a fact.thus the second level of interpretation tends to break down. if the notion ofeconomic behaviour is effectively separated from mechanical process, if theends are regarded as ends and not merely as physical effects, the discussionis already in large part at the third level. factual ends as desired cannot bemaintained unless they are given a large element of valuation in additiontodesire. the desires for economic goods and services cannot be held to be nal or to have a self-contained, independent reality. the least scrutinyshows that they are very largely rather accidental manifestations of desirefor something of the nature of liberty or power. but such objects of desireare forms of social relationship and not things, and the notion of economicefciency has only a limited applicability to their pursuit and attainment.treatment of such activities, if it is to have any general, serious appeal, must be a discussion of social policy relative to social ends or norms and socialprocedure in realizing them.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 economics and human action 105 the serious difculty in economic theory in this connection has been the tendency to confuse advocacy of a policy of political noninterference (or the opposite) with description of a social organization based on free contract. even wh en the authors have not deliberately intended to preach as well as toanalyse, the difculties of keeping the two types of discussion separate have been too great, especially in view of the requirements of an exposition which would be intelligible, not to say appealing, to any considerable readingpublic. in this eld the interest in values, and especially in social policy, isin fact predominant. thus economic theory, growing up in an atmosphereof reaction against control, clearly overemphasized this side of the caseand neglected the other. it is now just as obvious that there are equallysweeping and complex limitations to the principle of liberty in the economicsense, that is, to the organization of economic life exclusively through freecontract among individuals using given resources to achieve given individual ends. society cannot accept individual ends and individual means as dataor as the main objectives of its own policy. in the rst place, they simplyare not data, but are historically created in the social process itself andare inevitably affected by social policy. secondly, society cannot be evenrelatively indifferent to the workings of the process. t o do so would be ultimately destructive of society and individual alike. this conclusion isstrongly reinforced by the fact that the immediate interest of the individual islargely competitive, centered in his own social advancement relative to otherindividuals. in such a contest it is the function of the public authority toenforce the rules impartially, and still more to make such rules as would tendtokeep the game on the highest possible level. t o this end it must maintain astandpoint distinctly different from the interest in which the individual, always more conscious of conicts of interests than of community of interestwith the social body as a whole, tends to be absorbed. these reections point to a logical error underlying the value theory typical of the classical economists. it was not ostensibly their contention that liberty as such is a good. notoriously, they were hedonists; their argument forliberty made it instrumental to pleasure, on the ground that the individualis a better judge than government ofcials of the means to his happiness.itis not denying weight to this argument to point out that liberty itself is unquestionably a good to the individual, and in addition an ethical goodmore or less apart from the degree to which the individual actually prizesit. certainly an individual may desire liberty and claim a right to it withoutcontending that he will uniformly make decisions more wisely than they would be made for him, from the standpoint of his own material comfort and security. and just as certainly it can be maintained that the individual

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 106 frank knight should within limits make his own decisions and abide by their consequences even if he may not choose to do so. in other words, the classical economists did not realize, and the scientic spirit of the age has made economistsgenerally reluctant to admit that liberty is essentially a social value, at leastwhen it is advocated or opposed, as is any other social system or socialrelation. the actual interests or desires expressed in economic behaviour are to an overwhelming extent social in genesis and in content; consequently theycannot be described apart from a system of social relations which itself can-not be treated in purely objective, factual terms. t o a limited extent they canbe conceived by an individual in such terms; they may even be described byone individual to another as matter of fact. but the parties to such a com-munication place themselves in the role of spectators rather than members of society or participants in the phenomena. thus any published discussion,presupposing a general appeal to readers as members and participants, nec-essarily takes the form of stating a case for a policy, possibly with more orless equal attention to both sides. in this conict between the spectatorsinterest in seeing and understanding and the participants interest in actionand change, the philosopher or methodologist cannot possibly take sides.the question whether economics as such should be one or the other is to beanswered only by recognition that it must be both, with more or less empha-sis one way or the other according to the aims of a particular treatment; butalways by implication it must be both, however one-sided the emphasis,since each interest presupposes and is relative to the other, and every writerand reader as a human being is motivated by both interests. what is desir-able is that in any statement the relation between the two sets of interestsshould be clear. but what tends to happen is the reverse: he whose interest isprimarily in truth tends to reinforce his statements by identifying truth andvalue, and he whose interest is in values tends to strengthen his statementsbygiving them the quality of truth. while in the period of development of the classical economics the practi- cal social interest centred almost exclusively on liberation from an antiquatedsystem of control, at present the pendulum has swung denitely the otherway. the new problem raised by the confusion of scientic and evaluativeinterests is enormously more difcult than the old. society is positively seek-ing a basis of unity and order instead of negatively attempting to abandonan unsatisfactory basis. moreover, the current standards of thinking havecome under extreme domination of the scientic ideal, which has little if any applicability to the problem. the ultimate foundation of group unity mustbe of the nature of morale and sentiment rather than knowledge. there is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c04 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:6 economics and human action 107 no intellectual solution of conicts of interest. only values can be discussed, but the discussion does not necessarily lead to agreement; and disagreementon principles seems morally to call for an appeal to force. it is also of interest tonote that the tendency to rationalization causes conict of interest and disagreement regarding principles each to take on the quality of its opposite,and that in practice they are inseparably mingled. the extremist wings in the advocacy of change recognize the inappli- cability of purely intellectual knowledge. both fascist and communistschools incline to treat the truth or falsity of propositions in economics as amatter of indifference or even as illusory, judging the doctrines only by theirconduciveness toward the establishment of the desired type of social order. this view is, of course, untrue from a narrower scientic point of view;in any social order the results of certain choices affecting production andconsumption, by whomever made, come under certain abstract, essentially mathematical principles which express the difference between economy andwaste. at the other extreme at the rst and second levels of interpretationindicated above there is an equally energetic movement in the interest of arigorously scientic treatment of economics. analysis at the rst level, dis- regarding motivation and considering only the results of action in the form of commodity statistics, leaves no real place for any concept of economy.moreover, it cannot be carried out even literally, for commodities must be named and classied and the treatment must take account of similarities anddifferences in use as well as physical characteristics. and economics at thesecond level, treating desires as facts, is subject to very narrow limitations.desires really have no very denite content, and of what they have the stu-dents can have no denite knowledge. the conception can be made the basisof a purely abstract theory, but it has little application to reality. t o give thedata any content, the desires must be identied with the goods and servicesin which they nd expression, and the second method then is reduced toidentity with the rst. moreover, the only desires which can be treated as atall akin to scientic data are purely individual, and any discussion of socialpolicy must draw on values or ideals entirely outside of such a system.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 five selected t exts on economics, history, and social science karl marx reprinted here are three texts. the rst, estranged labour from marxs economic and philosophical manuscripts of 1844 ,provides a sweeping overview of his vision of the way in which the economic relations among people and the products ofthose relations dominate the very people who create and sustain those relations.the second, marxs preface to acontribution to the critique of political economy , verybriey sketches marxs historical materialism, whereby the state of technology determines the economic relations among people, which in turn determine legaland political relations and the course of history. the third, the method of politicaleconomy, which is a section of the introduction to acontribution to the critique ofpolitical economy ,contains marxs most explicit and sustained discussion of economic methodology. estranged labour wehave started out from the premises of political economy. we have accepted its language and its laws. we presupposed private property; the sep-aration of labour, capital, and land, and likewise of wages, prot, and capital;the division of labour; competition; the conception of exchange value, etc.from political economy itself, using its own words, we have shown that the worker sinks to the level of a commodity, and moreover the most wretched commodity of all; that the misery of the worker is in inverse proportion to the power and volume of his production; that the necessary consequenceof competition is the accumulation of capital in a few hands and hence therestoration of monopoly in a more terrible form; and that, nally, the dis- tinction between capitalist and landlord, between agricultural worker andindustrial worker, disappears and the whole of society must split into thetwo classes of property ownersand propertyless work ers. reprinted with the permission of international publishers. 108

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 109 political economy proceeds from the fact of private property. it does not explain it. it grasps the material process of private property, the process through which it actually passes, in general and abstract formulae which itthen takes as laws.i td o e sn o t comprehend these laws i.e., it does not show how they arise from the nature of private property. political economy fails toexplain the reason for the division between labour and capital. for example, when it denes the relation of wages to prot, it takes the interests of thecapitalists as the basis of its analysis i.e., it assumes what it is supposed toexplain. similarly, competition is frequently brought into the argument and explained in terms of external circumstances. political economy teaches us nothing about the extent to which these external and apparently accidentalcircumstances are only the expression of a necessary development. we haveseen how exchange itself appears to political economy as an accidental fact.the only wheels which political economy sets in motion are greed,and the war of the avaricious competition . precisely because political economy fails to grasp the interconnections within the movement, it was possible to oppose, for example, the doctrine of competition to the doctrine of monopoly, the doctrine of craft freedom tothe doctrine of the guild, and the doctrine of the division of landed propertytothe doctrine of the great estate; for competition, craft freedom, and divi- sion of landed property were developed and conceived only as accidental,deliberate, violent consequences of monopoly, of the guilds, and of feudalproperty, and not as their necessary, inevitable, and natural consequences. wenow have to grasp the essential connection between private property, greed, the separation of labour, capital and landed property, exchange and competition, value and the devaluation o fman, monopoly, and competition, etc. the connection between this entire system of estrangement and themoney system. wemust avoid repeating the mistake of the political economist, who bases his explanations on some imaginary primordial condition. such a pri-mordial condition explains nothing. it simply pushes the question into thegreyand nebulous distance. it assumes as facts and events what it is sup- posed to deduce namely, the necessary relationships between two things,between, for example, the division of labour and exchange. similarly, the-ology explains the origin of evil by the fall of man i.e., it assumes as a factin the form of history what it should explain. weshall start out from an actual economic fact. the worker becomes poorer the more wealth he produces, the more his production increases in power and extent. the worker becomes an evercheaper commodity the more commodities he produces. the devaluation

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 110 karl marx of the human world grows in direct proportion to the increase in value of the world of things. labour not only produces commodities; it also produces itself and the workers as a commodity and it does so in the same proportion in which it produces commodities in general. this fact simply means that the object that labour produces, its product, stands opposed to it as something alien ,a sap o w e ri n d ependent of the producer. the product of labour is labour embodied and made material in an object, it is the objectication of labour. the realization of labour is its objectication. in the sphere of polit ical economy, this realization of labour appears as a loss of reality for the worker,1objectication as loss of and bondage to the object, and appropriation as estrangement, as alienation .2 so much does the realization of labour appear as loss of reality that the worker loses his reality to the point of dying of starvation. so much does objectication appear as loss of the object that the worker is robbed ofthe objects he needs most not only for life but also for work. work itselfbecomes an object which he can only obtain through an enormous effortand with spasmodic interruptions. so much does the appropriation of theobject appear as estrangement that the more objects the worker producesthe fewer can he possess and the more he falls under the domination of hisproduct, of capital. all these consequences are contained in this characteristic, that the worker is related to the product of labour as to an alien object. for it is clear that, according to this premise, the more the worker exerts himself in his work,the more powerful the alien, objective world becomes which he brings intobeing over against himself, the poorer he and his inner world become, andthe less they belong to him. it is the same in religion. the more man putsinto god, the less he retains within himself. the worker places his life in theobject; but now it no longer belongs to him, but to the object. the greater hisactivity, therefore, the fewer objects the worker possesses. what the productof his labour is, he is not. therefore, the greater this product, the less is hehimself. the externalisation of the worker in his product means not onlythat his labour becomes an object, an external existence, but that it exists outside him ,independently of him and alien to him, and begins to confront him as an autonomous power; that the life which he has bestowed on theobject confronts him as hostile and alien. letusnowtake a closer look at objectication, at the production of the worker, and the estrangement, the loss of the object, of his product, that this entails. the workers can create nothing without nature, without the sensuous external world. it is the material in which his labour realizes itself, in which it is active and from which, and by means of which, it produces.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 111 butjust as nature provides labour with the means of life, in the sense of labour cannot live without objects on which to exercise itself, so alsoit provides the means of life in the narrower sense, namely the means ofphysical subsistence of the worker. the more the worker appropriates the external world, sensuous nature, through his labour, the more he deprives himself of the means of life intwo respects: rstly, the sensuous external world becomes less and less anobject belonging to his labour, a means of life of his labour; and, secondly,it becomes less and less a means of life in the immediate sense, a means forthe physical subsistence of the worker. inthese two respects, then, the worker becomes a slave of his object; rstly, in that he receives an object of labour, i.e., he receives work, and, secondly,in that he receives means of subsistence. firstly, then, so that he can exist asaworker, and secondly as a physical subject. the culmination of this slavery is that it is only as a worker that he can maintain himself as a physical subjectand only as a physical subject that he is a worker. (the estrangement of the worker in his object is expressed according to the laws of political economy in the following way: 1. the more the worker produces, the less he has to consume; 2. the more value he creates, the more worthless he becomes;3. the more his product is shaped, the more misshapen the worker;4. the more civilized his object, the more barbarous the worker;5. the more powerful the work, the more powerless the worker;6. the more intelligent the work, the duller the worker and the more he becomes a slave of nature.) political economy conceals the estrangement in the nature of labour by ignor- ing the direct relationship between the worker (labour) and production .i ti s true that labour produces marvels for the rich, but it produces privation for the worker. it produces palaces, but hovels for the worker. it producesbeauty, but deformity for the worker. it replaces labour by machines, but itcasts some of the workers back into barbarous forms of labour and turnsothers into machines. it produces intelligence, but it produces idiocy andcretinism for the worker. the direct relationship of labour to its products is the relationship of the worker to the objects of his production .the relationship of the rich man to the objects of production and to production itself is only a consequence of this rst relationship, and conrms it. later, we shall consider this secondaspect. therefore, when we ask what is the essential relationship of labour, weare asking about the relationship of the worker to production.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 112 karl marx uptonow, we have considered the estrangement, the alienation of the worker, only from one aspect i.e., the workers relationship to the products of his labour .but estrangement manifests itself not only in the result, but also in the act of production ,within the activity of production itself. how could the product of the workers activity confront him as something alien if it werenot for the fact that in the act of production he was estranging himself fromhimself? after all, the product is simply the resum eo ft h ea c t i v i t y ,o ft h e production. so if the product of lab our is alienation, production itself must be active alienation, the alienation of act ivity, the activity of alienation. the estrangement of the object of labour merely summarizes the estrangement,the alienation in the activity of labour itself. what constitutes the alienation of labour? firstly, the fact that labour is external tothe worker i.e., does not belong tohis essential being; that he, therefore, does not conrm himself in his work,but denies himself, feels miserable and not happy, does not develop free mental and physical energy, but morties his esh and ruins his mind.hence, the worker feels himself only when he is not working; when he is working, he does not feel himself. he is at home when he is not working, and not at home when he is working. his labour is, therefore, not voluntarybut forced ,i ti s forced labour .itis, therefore, not the satisfaction of a need butam e r e means tosatisfy needs outside itself. its alien character is clearly demonstrated by the fact that as soon as no physical or other compulsionexists, it is shunned like the plague. external labour, labour in which man alienates himself, is a labour of self-sacrice, of mortication. finally, theexternal character of labour for the worker is demonstrated by the fact that it belongs not to him but to another, and that in it he belongs not to himselfbut to another. just as in religion the spontaneous activity of the humanimagination, the human brain, and the human heart, detaches itself fromthe individual and reappears as the alien activity of a god or of a devil, sothe activity of the worker is not his own spontaneous activity. it belongs toanother, it is a loss of his self. the result is that man (the worker) feels that he is acting freely only in his animal functions eating, drinking, and procreating, or at most in hisdwelling and adornment while in his human functions, he is nothing more than animal. itis true that eating, drinking, and procreating, etc., are also genuine human functions. however, when abstracted from other aspects of human activity, and turned into nal and exclusive ends, they are animal. wehave considered the act of estrangement of practical human activity, of labour, from two aspects:

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 113 (1) the relationship of the worker to the product of labour as an alien object that has power over him. the relationship is, at the same time, the relationship to the sensuous external world, to natural objects, as an alien world confronting him, in hostile opposition. (2) the relationship of labour to the act of production within labour. this relationship is the relationship of the worker to his own activity assomething which is alien and does not belong to him, activity as passivity,power as impotence, procreation as emasculation, the workers own physicaland mental energy, his personal life for what is life but activity? as anactivity directed against himself, whic hisindependent of him and does not belong to him. self-estrangement, as compared with the estrangement ofthe object mentioned above. wenow have to derive a third feature of estranged labour from the two wehave already examined. manisaspecies-being, 3not only because he pract ically and theoretically makes the species both his own and those of other things his object, butalso and this is simply another way of saying the same thing becausehe looks upon himself as the present, li ving species, because he looks upon himself as a universal and therefore free being. species-life, both for man and for animals, consists physically in the fact that man, like animals, lives from inorganic nature; and because man ismore universal than animals, so too is the area of inorganic nature fromwhich he lives more universal. just as plants, animals, stones, air, light, etc.,theoretically form a part of human consciousness, partly as objects of scienceand partly as objects of art his spiritual inorganic nature, his spiritual meansof life, which he must rst prepare before he can enjoy and digest them so, too, in practice they form a part of human life and human activity. inaphysical sense, man lives only from these natural products, whether in the form of nourishment, heating, clothing, shelter, etc. the universality ofman manifests itself in practice in that universality which makes the wholeof nature his inorganic body, (1) as a direct means of life and (2) as thematter, the object, and the tool of his life activity. nature is mans inorganicbody that is to say, nature insofar as it is not the human body. man livesfrom nature i.e., nature is his body and he must maintain a continuingdialogue with it is he is not to die. t o say that mans physical and mental lifeis linked to nature simply means that nature is linked to itself, for man is apart of nature. estranged labour not only (1) estranges nature from man and (2) estranges man from himself, from his own function, from his vital activity;because of this, it also estranges man from his species. it turns his species-life

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 114 karl marx into a means for his individual life. firstly, it estranges species-life and indi- vidual life, and, secondly, it turns the latter, in its abstract form, into the purpose of the former, also in its abstract and estranged form. forinthe rst place labour, life activity, productive life itself, appears to man only as a means for the satisfaction of a need, the need to preservephysical existence. but productive lif eisspecies-life. it is life-producing life. the whole character of a species, its species-character, resides in the nature ofits life activity, and free conscious activity constitutes the species-characterof man. life appears only as a means of life. the animal is immediately one with its life activity. it is not distinct from that activity; it is that activity. man makes his life activity itself anobject of his will and consciousness. he has conscious life activity. it isnot a determination with which he directly merges. conscious life activitydirectly distinguishes man from animal life activity. only because of that ishe a species-being. or, rather, he is a conscious being i.e., his own life isan object for him, only because he is a species-being. only because of thatis his activity free activity. estranged labour reverses the relationship so thatman, just because he is a conscious being, makes his life activity, his essential being ,am ere means for his existence . the practical creation of an objective world ,the fashioning of inorganic nature, is proof that man is a conscious species-being i.e., a being whichtreats the species as its own essential being or itself as a species-being. it is true that animals also produce. they build nests and dwellings, like thebee, the beaver, the ant, etc. but they produce only their own immediateneeds or those of their young; they produce only when immediate physicalneed compels them to do so, while man produces even when he is freefrom physical need and truly produces only in freedom from such need;they produce only themselves, while man reproduces the whole of nature;their products belong immediately to their physical bodies, while man freelyconfronts his own product. animals produce only according to the standards and needs of the species to which they belong, while man is capable ofproducing according to the standards of every species and of applying toeach object its inherent standard; hence, man also produces in accordancewith the laws of beauty. itis, therefore, in his fashioning of the objective that man really proves himself to be a species-being. such production is his active species-life.through it, nature appears as hisworkand his reality. the object of labour is, therefore, the objectication of the species-life of man: for man produceshimself not only intellectually, in his consciousness, but actively and actually, and he can therefore contemplate himself in a world he himself has created.intearing away the object of his production from man, estranged labour

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 115 therefore tears away from him his species-life, his true species-objectivity, and transforms his advantage over animals into the disadvantage that hisinorganic body, nature, is taken from him. inthe same way as estranged labour reduces spontaneous and free activity toameans, it makes mans species-life a means of his physical existence. consciousness, which man has from his species, is transformed through estrangement so that species-life becomes a means for him. (3) estranged labour, therefore, turns mans species-being both nature and his intellectual species-power into a being alien to him and a means ofhis individual existence. it estranges man from his own body, from natureas it exists outside him, from his spiritual essence, his human existence. (4) an immediate consequence of mans estrangement from the product of his labour, his life activity, his species-being, is the estrangement of manfrom man. when man confronts himself, he also confronts other men. whatis true of mans relationship to his labour, to the product of his labour, andtohimself, is also true of his relationship to other men, and to the labour and the object of the labour of other men. ingeneral, the proposition that man is estranged from his species-being means that each man is estranged from the others and that all are estrangedfrom mans essence. mans estrangement, like all relationships of man to himself, is realized and expressed only in mans relationship to other men. inthe relationship of estranged labour, each man therefore regards the other in accordance with the standard and the situation in which he as aworker nds himself. westarted out from an economic fact, the estrangement of the worker and of his production. we gave this fact conceptual form: estranged, alienatedlabour. we have analyzed this concept, and in so doing merely analyzed aneconomic fact. letusnowgo on to see how the concept of estranged, alienated labour must express and present itself in reality. ifthe product of labour is alien to me, and confronts me as an alien power, to whom do es it then belong? toab e i n g other than me. whoisthis being? the gods? it is true that in early times most production e.g., temple building, etc., in egypt, india, and mexico was in the service of the gods,just as the product belonged to the gods. but the gods alone were neverthe masters of labour. the same is true of nature. and what a paradox itwould be if the more man subjugates nature through his labour and the more divine miracles are made superuous by the miracles of industry, the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 116 karl marx more he is forced to forgo the joy or production and the enjoyment of the product out of deference to these powers. the alien being to whom labour and the product of labour belong, in whose service labour is performed, and for whose enjoyment the product of labour is created, can be none other than man himself. ifthe product of labour does not belong to the worker, and if it confronts him as an alien power, this is only possible because it belongs to a man otherthan the worker. if his activity is a torment for him, it must provide pleasureand enjoyment for someone else. not the gods, not nature, but only manhimself can be this alien power over men. consider the above proposition that the relationship of man to himself becomes objective and real for him only through his relationship to othermen. if, therefore, he regards the product of his labour, his objectied labour,as an alien, hostile, and powerful object which is independent of him, then his relationship to that object is such that another man alien, hostile,powerful, and independent of him is its master. if he relates to his ownactivity as unfree activity, then he relates to it as activity in the service, underthe rule, coercion, and yoke of another man. every self-estrangement of man from himself and nature is manifested in the relationship he sets up between other men and himself and nature.thus, religious self-estrangement is necessarily manifested in the relation-ship between layman and priest, or, since we are dealing here with the spir-itual world, between layman and mediator, etc. in the practical, real world,self-estrangement can manifest itself only in the practical, real relationshiptoother men. the medium through which estrangement progresses is itself apractical one. so through estranged labour man not only produces his relationship to the object and to the act of production as to alien and hostile powers; he also produces the relationship in which other men stand to hisproduction and product, and the relationship in which he stands to theseother men. just as he creates his own production as a loss of reality, a pun-ishment, and his own product as a loss, a product which does not belongtohim, so he creates the domination of the non-producer over production and its product. just as he estranges from himself his own activity, so heconfers upon the stranger and activity which does not belong to him. uptonow, we have considered the relationship only from the side of the worker. later on, we shall consider it from the side of the non-worker. thus, through estranged, alienated labour, the worker creates the rela- tionship of another man, who is alien to labour and stands outside it, tothat labour. the relation of the worker to labour creates the relation of thecapitalist or whatever other word one chooses for the master of labour tothat labour. private property is therefore the product, result, and necessary

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 117 consequence of alienated labour, of the external relation of the worker to nature and to himself. private property thus derives from an analysis of the concept of alienated labour i.e., alienated man, estranged labour, estranged life, estranged man. itis true that we took the concept of alienated labour (alienated life) from political economy as a result of the movement of private property. but it is clear from an analysis of this concept that, although private property appearsas the basis and cause of alienated labour, it is in fact its consequence, justas the gods were originally not the cause but the effect of the confusion inmens minds. later, however, this relationship becomes reciprocal. itis only when the development of private property reaches its ultimate point of culmination that this, its secret, re-emerges; namely, that is (a) the product of alienated labour, and (b) the means through which labour is alienated, the realization of this alienation. this development throws light upon a number of hitherto unresolved controversies. (1) political economy starts out from labour as the real soul of production and yet gives nothing to labour and everything to private property. proud-hon has dealt with this contradiction by deciding for labour and againstprivate property. 4butwehaveseen that this apparent contradiction is the contra diction of estranged labour with itself and that political economy has merely formulated laws of estranged labour. it,therefore, follows for us that wages and private property are identical: for there the product, the object of labour, pays for the labour itself, wagesare only a necessary consequence of the estrangement of labour; similarly,where wages are concerned, labour appears not as an end in itself but as theservant of wages. we intend to deal with this point in more detail later on:for the present we shall merely draw a few conclusions. 5 anenforced rise in wages (disregarding all other difculties, including the fact that such an anomalous situation could only be prolonged by force)would therefore be nothing more than better pay for slaves and would not mean an increase in human signicance or dignity for either the worker orthe labour. even the equality of wages, which proudhon demands, would merely transform the relation of the present-day worker to his work into the relation of all men to work. society would then be conceived as an abstract capitalist. wages are an immediate consequence of estranged labour, and estranged labour is the immediate cause of private property. if the one falls, then theother must fall too.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 118 karl marx (2) it further follows from the relation of estranged labour to private property that the emancipation of society from private property, etc., from servitude, is expressed in the political form of the emancipation of the workers . this is not because it is only a question of their emancipation, but because in their emancipation is contained universal human emancipation. thereason for this universality is that the whole of human servitude is involved in the relation of the worker to producti on, and all relations of servitude are nothing but modications and consequences of this relation. just as we have arrived at the concept of private property through an analysis of the concept of estranged, alienated labour ,sowith the help of these two factors it is possible to evolve all economic categories, and in each ofthese categories e.g., trade, competition, capital, money we shall identifyonly a particular and developed expression of these basic constituents. but, before we go on to consider this conguration, let us try to solve two further problems. (1) we have to determine the general nature of private property, as it has arisen out of estranged labour, in its relation to truly human and socialproperty. (2) we have taken the estrangement of labour ,itsalienation ,a saf a c ta n d wehave analyzed that fact. how, we now ask, does man come to alienate his labour, to estrange it? how is this estrangement founded in the nature ofhuman development? we have already gone a long way towards solving this problem by transforming the question of the origin of private property into the question of the relationship of alienated labour to the course of humandevelopment. for, in speaking of private property, one imagines that oneis dealing with something external to man. in speaking of labour, one isdealing immediately with man himself. this new way of formulating theproblem already contains its solution. ad (1): the general nature of private property and its relationship to truly human property . alienated labour has resolved itself for us into two component parts, which mutually condition one another, or which are merely different expres- sions of one and the same relationship. appropriation appears as estrange- ment ,a salienation ;and alienation appears as appropriation ,estrangement as true admission to citizenship . 6 wehave considered the one aspect alienated labour in relation to the worker himself i.e., the relation of alienated labour to itself .a n d as product, as necessary consequence of this relationship, we have found the propertyrelation of the non-worker to the worker and to labour. private property as the material, summarized expression of alienated labour embraces both

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 119 relations the relation of the worker to labour and to the product of his labour and the non-workers, and the relation of the non-worker to theworker and to the product of his labour. wehave already seen that, in relation to the worker who appropriates nature through his labour, appropriation appears as estrangement, self-activity as activity for another and of another, vitality as a sacrice of life,production of an object as loss of that object to an alien power, to an alien man. let us now consider the relation between this man, who is alien to labour and to the worker, and the worker, labour, and the object of labour. the rst thing to point out is that everything which appears for the worker as an activity of alienation, of estrangement, appears for the non-worker asasituation of alienation, of estrangement. secondly, the real, practical attitude of the worker in production and to the product (as a state of mind) appears for the non-worker who confrontshim as a theoretical attitude. thirdly, the non-worker does everything against the worker which the worker does against himself, but he doe snot do against himself what he does against the worker. letustake a closer look at these three relationships. from the preface to acontribution to the critique ofpolitical economy inthe social production of their existence, men inevitably enter into denite relations, which are independent of the ir will, namely relations of produc- tion appropriate to a given stage in the development of their material forcesof production. the totality of these relations of production constitutes theeconomic structure of society, the real foundation, on which arises a legaland political superstructure and to whic hcorrespond denite forms of social consciousness. the mode of production of material life conditions the gen- eral process of social, political and intellectual life. it is not the consciousnessof men that determines their existence, but their social existence that deter-mines their consciousness. at a certain stage of development, the materialproductive forces of society come int oconict with the existing relations of production or this merely expresses the same thing in legal terms withthe property relations within the framework of which they have operatedhitherto. from forms of development of the productive forces these relationsturn into their fetters. then begins an era of social revolution. the changesin the economic foundation lead sooner or later to the transformation ofthe whole immense superstructure.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 120 karl marx instudying such transformations it is always necessary to distinguish between the material transformation of the economic conditions of pro-duction, which can be determined with the precision of natural science, andthe legal, political, religious, artistic or philosophic in short, ideological forms in which men become conscious of this conict and ght it out. justas one does not judge an individual by what he thinks about himself, so onecannot judge such a period of transformation by its consciousness, but, onthe contrary, this consciousness must be explained from the contradictionsof material life, from the conict existing between the social forces of pro-duction and the relations of production. no social order is ever destroyedbefore all the productive forces for which it is sufcient have been developed,and new superior relations of producti on never replace older ones before the material conditions for their existence have matured within the frameworkof the old society. mankind thus inevitably sets itself only such tasks as it is able to solve, since closer examination will always show that the problem itself arises onlywhen the material conditions for its solution are already present or at leastin the course of formation. in broad outline, the asiatic, ancient, feudaland modern bourgeois modes of production may be designated as epochsmarking progress in the economic development of society. the bourgeoismode of production is the last antagonistic form of the social process ofproduction antagonistic not in the sense of individual antagonism butof an antagonism that emanates from the individuals social conditions ofexistence but the productive forces developing within bourgeois society create also the material conditions for a solution of this antagonism. theprehistory of human society accordingly closes with this social formation. the method of political economy when examining a given country from the standpoint of political economy, webegin with its population, the division of the population into classes, townand country, the sea, the different branches of production, export and import, annual production and consumption, prices, etc. itwould seem to be the proper thing to start with the real and concrete ele- ments, with the actual preconditions, e.g., to start in the sphere of economy with population, which forms the basis and the subject of the whole social process of production. closer consideration shows, however, that this iswrong. population is an abstraction if, for instance, one disregards the classes of which it is composed. these classes in turn remain empty terms if onedoes not know the factors on which they depend, e.g., wage-labour, capital,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 121 and so on. these presuppose exchange, division of labour, prices, etc. for example, capital is nothing without wage-labour, without value, money, price, etc. if one were to take population as the point of departure, it wouldbe a very vague notion of a complex whole and through closer denition onewould arrive analytically at increasingly simple concepts; from imaginary concrete terms one would move to more and more tenuous abstractions until one reached the most simple denitions. from there it would be nec-essary to make the journey again in the opposite direction until one arrivedonce more at the concept of population, which is this time not a vaguenotion of a whole, but a totality comprising many determinations and rela-tions. the rst course is the historical one taken by political economy at itsinception. the seventeenth-century economists, for example, always took astheir starting point the living organism, the population, the nation, the state,several states, etc., but analysis led them always in the end to the discov-ery of a few decisive abstract, general relations, such as division of labour,money, and value. when these separate factors were more or less clearlydeduced and established, economic systems were evolved which from sim-ple concepts, such as labour, division of labour, demand, exchange-value,advanced to categories like state, international exchange and world market.the latter is obviously the correct scientic method. the concrete concept isconcrete because it is a synthesis of many denitions, thus representing the unity of diverse aspects. it appears therefore in reasoning as a summing-up,aresult, and not as the starting point, although it is the real point of origin, and thus also the point of origin of perception and imagination. the rstprocedure attenuates meaningful images to abstract denitions, the secondleads from abstract denitions by way of reasoning to the reproduction ofthe concrete situation. hegel accordingly conceived the illusory idea thatthe real world is the result of thinking which causes its own synthesis, itsowndeepening and its own movement; whereas the method of advancing from the abstract to the concrete is simply the way in which thinking assim-ilates the concrete and reproduces it as a concrete mental category. this is,however, by no means the process of evolution of the concrete world itself.forexample, the simplest economic category, e.g., exchange-value, presup- poses population, a population moreover which produces under deniteconditions, as well as a distinct kind of family, or community, or state, etc. exchange-value cannot exist except as an abstract, unilateral relation of an already existing concrete organic whole. but exchange-value as a categoryleads an antediluvian existence. thus to consciousness-and this comprisesphilosophical consciousness which regards the comprehending mind asthe real man, and hence the comprehended world as such as the only real

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 122 karl marx world; to consciousness, therefore, the evolution of categories appears as the actual process of production which unfortunately is given an impulsefrom outside whose result is the world; and this (which is however againatautological expression) is true in so far as the concrete totality regarded as a conceptual totality, as a mental fact, is indeed a product of thinking, ofcomprehension; but it is by no means a product of the idea which evolves spontaneously and whose thinking proceeds outside and above perceptionand imagination, but is the result of the assimilation and transformationof perceptions and images into concepts. the totality as a conceptual entityseen by the intellect is a product of the thinking intellect which assimilatesthe world in the only way open to it, a way which differs from the artistic,religious and practically intelligent assimilat ion of this world. the concrete subject remains outside the intellect and independent of it that is so longas the intellect adopts a purely speculat ive, purely theoretical attitude. the subject, society, must always be envisaged therefore as the pre-condition ofcomprehension even when the theoretical method is employed. buthavenot these simple categories also an independent historical or natural existence preceding that of the more concrete ones? this depends.hegel, for example, correctly takes ownership, the simplest legal relation of the subject, as the point of departure of the philosophy of law. no ownershipexists, however, before the family or the relations of master and servant are evolved, and these are much more concrete relations. it would, on the other hand, be correct to say that families and entire tribes exist which have as yetonly possessions and not property .the simpler category appears thus as a rela- tion of simple family or tribal communities to property. in societies whichhave reached a higher stage the category appears as a comparatively simplerelation existing in a more advanced community. the concrete substratum underlying the relation of ownership is however always presupposed. onecan conceive an individual savage who has possessions; possession in thiscase, however, is not a legal relation. it is incorrect that in the course ofhistorical development possession gave rise to the family. on the contrary,possession always presupposes this more concrete legal category. onemay, nevertheless, conclude that the simple categories represent relations orconditions which may reect the immature concrete situation without as yetpositing the more complex relation or condition which is conceptually expressed in the more concrete category; on the other hand, the same cate- gory may be retained as a subordinate relation in more developed concretecircumstances. money may exist and has existed in historical time beforecapital, banks, wage-labour, etc. came into being. in this respect it can besaid, therefore, that the simpler category e xpresses relations predominating

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 123 in an immature entity or subordinate relations in a more advanced entity; relations which already existed historical ly before the entity had developed the aspects expressed in a more concrete category. the procedure of abstractreasoning which advances from the simplest to more complex concepts to that extent conforms to actual historical development. itis true, on the other hand, that there are certain highly developed, but nevertheless historically immature, social formations which employ someof the most advanced economic forms, e.g., cooperation, developed division of labour, etc., without having developed any money at all, for instance peru.inslavonic communities too, money and its pre-condition, exchange is of little or no importance within the individual community, but is usedon the borders, where commerce with other communities takes place; andit is altogether wrong to assume that exchange within the community is anoriginal constituent element. on the contrary, in the beginning exchangetends to arise in the intercourse of different communities with one another, rather than among members of the same community. moreover, although money begins to play a considerable role very early and in diverse ways, itis known to have been a dominant factor in antiquity only among nationsdeveloped in a particular direction, i.e., merchant nations. even among thegreeks and romans, the most advanced nations of antiquity, money reaches its full development, which is presupp osed in modern bourgeois society, only in the period of their disintegration. thus the full potential of this quitesimple category does not emerge historically in the most advanced phasesof society, and it certainly does not penetrate into all economic relations.forexample, taxes in kind and deliveries in kind remained the basis of the roman empire even at the height of its development; indeed a completely evolved monetary system existed in rome only in the army, and it never permeated the whole complex of labour. although the simpler category,therefore, may have existed historically before the more concrete category,its complete intensive and extensive development can nevertheless occur inacomplex social formation, whereas the more concrete category may have been fully evolved in a more primitive social formation. labour seems to be a very simple category. the notion of labour in this universal form, as labour in general, is also extremely old. neverthelesslabour in this simplicity is economically considered just as modern a cate- gory as the relations which give rise to this simple abstraction. the monetarysystem, for example, still regards wealth quite objectively as a thing exist- ing independently in the shape of money. compared with this stand-point, it was a substantial advance when the manufacturing or mercantilesystem transferred the source of wealth from the object to the subjective

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 124 karl marx activity mercantile or industrial lab our but it still considered that only this circumscribed activity itself produced money. in contrast to this sys-tem, the physiocrats assume that a specic form of labour agriculture creates wealth, and they see the object no longer in the guise of money, butas a product in general, as the universal result of labour. in accordance withthe still circumscribed activity, the pr oduct remains a naturally developed product, an agricultural product, a product of the land par excellence . itwas an immense advance when adam smith rejected all restrictions with regard to the activity that produces wealth for him it was labour as such, neither manufacturing, nor commercial, nor agricultural labour, butall types of labour. the abstract universality which creates wealth implies alsothe universality of the objects dened as wealth: they are products as such,or once more labour as such, but in this case past, materialised labour. howdifcult and immense a transition this was is demonstrated by the fact thatadam smith himself occasionally relapses once more into the physiocratic system. it might seem that in this way merely an abstract expression wasfound for the simplest and most ancient relation in which human beingsact as producers irrespective of the type of society they live in. this is truein one respect, but not in another. the fact that the specic kind of labour is irrelevant presupposes a highly developed complex of actually existing kinds of labour, none of which isany more the all-important one. the most general abstractions arise on thewhole only when concrete development is most profuse, so that a specicquality is seen to be common to many p henomena, or common to all. then it is no longer perceived solely in a particular form. this abstraction oflabour is, on the other hand, by no means simply the conceptual resultantof a variety of concrete types of labour. the fact that the particular kind oflabour employed is immaterial is appropriate to a form of society in whichindividuals easily pass from one type of labour to another, the particular typeof labour being accidental to them and therefore irrelevant. labour, not onlyas a category but in reality, has become a means to create wealth in general,and has ceased to be tied as an attribute to a particular individual. this stateof affairs is most pronounced in the united states, the most modern form ofbourgeois society. the abstract category labour, labour as such, laboursans phrase ,the point of departure of modern economics, thus becomes apractical fact only there. the simplest abstraction, which plays a decisive role in modem political economy, an abstraction which expresses an ancient relation existing in all social formations, nevertheless appears to be actually true in this abstract form only as a category of the most modern society. it might be said that phenomena which are historical products in the unitedstates e.g., the irrelevance of the particular type of labour appear to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 125 be among the russians, for instance, naturally developed predispositions. butinthe rst place, there is an enormous difference between barbarians having a predisposition which makes it possible to employ them in varioustasks, and civilised people who apply themselves to various tasks. as regardsthe russians, moreover, their indifference to the particular kind of labourperformed is in practice matched by their traditional habit of clinging fasttoav ery denite kind of labour from which they are extricated only by external inuences. the example of labour strikingly demonstrates how even the most abstract categories, despite their validity in all epochs precisely becausethey are abstractions are equally a product of historical conditions evenin the specic form of abstractions, and they retain their full validity onlyfor and within the framework of these conditions. bourgeois society is the most advanced and complex historical organ- isation of production. the categories which express its relations, and anunderstanding of its structure, therefore, provide an insight into the struc-ture and the relations of production of all formerly existing social formations the ruins and component elements of which were used in the creation ofbourgeois society. some of these unassimilated remains are still carried onwithin bourgeois society, others, however, which previously existed only in rudimentary form, have been further developed and have attained their full signicance, etc. the anatomy of man is a key to the anatomy of the ape. onthe other hand, rudiments of more advanced forms in the lower species ofanimals can only be understood when the more advanced forms are alreadyknown. bourgeois economy thus provides a key to the economy of antiquity,etc. but it is quite impossible (to gain this insight) in the manner of thoseeconomists who obliterate all historical differences and who see in all socialphenomena only bourgeois phenomena. if one knows rent, it is possible tounderstand tribute, tithe, etc., but they do not have to be treated as identical. since bourgeois society is, moreover, only a contradictory form of devel- opment, it contains relations of earlier societies often merely in very stuntedform or even in the form of travesties, e.g., communal ownership. thus, although it is true that the categories of bourgeois economy are valid for allother social formations, this has to be taken cum grano salis ,for they may contain them in an advanced, stunted, caricatured, etc., form that is always with substantial differences. what is calle dhistorical evolution depends in general on the fact that the latest form regards earlier ones as stages in thedevelopment of itself and conceives them always in a one-sided manner,since only rarely and under quite special conditions is a society able toadopt a critical attitude towards itself; in this context we are not of coursediscussing historical periods which themselves believe that they are periods

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 126 karl marx of decline. the christian religion was able to contribute to an objective understanding of earlier mythologies only when its self-criticism was to acertain extent prepared, as it were potentially. similarly, only when the self- criticism of bourgeois society had be gun, was bourgeois political economy able to understand the feudal, ancient and oriental economies. in so far asbourgeois political economy did not simply identify itself with the past inamythological manner, its criticism of ear lier economies-especially of the feudal system against which it still had to wage a direct struggle-resembledthe criticism that christianity directed against heathenism, or which protes-tantism directed against catholicism. just as in general when examining any historical or social science, so also in the case of the development of economic categories is it always neces-sary to remember that the subject, in this context contemporary bourgeoissociety, is presupposed both in reality and in the mind, and that thereforecategories express forms of existence and conditions of existence and some-times merely separate aspects of this particular society, the subject; thus the category, evenfrom the scientic standpoint ,bynomeans begins at the moment when it is discussed as such .this has to be remembered because it provides important criteria for the arrangement of the material. for exam-ple, nothing seems more natural than to begin with rent, i.e., with landedproperty, since it is associated with the earth, the source of all productionand all life, and with agriculture, the rst form of production in all soci-eties that have attained a measure of stability. but nothing would be moreerroneous. there is in every social formation a particular branch of produc-tion which determines the position and importance of all the others, andthe relations obtaining in this branch accordingly determine the relationsof all other branches as well. it is as though light of a particular hue werecast upon everything, tingeing all other colours and modifying their specicfeatures; or as if a special ether determined the specic gravity of everythingfound in it. let us take as an example pastoral tribes. (tribes living exclu-sively on hunting or shing are beyond the boundary line from which realdevelopment begins.) a certain type of agricultural activity occurs amongthem and this determines land ownership. it is communal ownership andretains this form in a larger or smaller measure, according to the degree towhich these people maintain their traditions, e.g., communal ownership among the slavs. among settled agricultural people-settled already to a largeextent-where agriculture predominates as in the societies of antiquity and the feudal period, even manufacture, its structure and the forms of propertycorresponding thereto, have, in some measure, specically agrarian features. manufacture is either completely dependent on agriculture, as in the earlier

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 127 roman period, or as in the middle ages, it copies in the town and in its conditions the organisation of the countryside. in the middle ages even capital unless it was solely money capital consisted of the traditionaltools, etc., and retained a specically agrarian character. the reverse takes place in bourgeois society. agriculture to an increasing extent becomes justabranch of industry and is completely dominated by capital. the same applies to rent. in all forms in which landed property is the decisive factor,natural relations still predominate; in the forms in which the decisive factoris capital, social, historically evolved elements predominate. rent cannot beunderstood without capital, but capital can be understood without rent.capital is the economic power that dominates everything in bourgeois soci-ety. it must form both the point of departure and the conclusion and it hastobe expounded before landed property. after analysing capital and landed property separately, their interconnection must be examined. itwould be inexpedient and wrong therefore to present the economic categories successively in the order in which they have played the dominantrole in history. on the contrary, their order of succession is determined bytheir mutual relation in modern bourgeois society and this is quite the reverse of what appears to be natural to them or in accordance with the sequence of historical development the point at issue is not the role thatvarious economic relations have played in the succession of various socialformations appearing in the course of history; even less is it their sequenceas conce pts ( proudhon )(anebulous notion of the historical process), but their position within modern bourgeois society. itis precisely the predominance of agricultural peoples in the ancient world which caused the merchant nations phoenicians, carthaginians todevelop in such purity (abstract precision). for capital in the shape of merchant or money capital appears in that abstract form where capital hasnot yet become the dominant factor in society. lombards and jews occupiedthe same position with regard to mediaeval agrarian societies. another example of the various roles which the same categories have played at different stages of society are joint-stock companies, one of themost recent features of bourgeois society; but they arise also in its earlyperiod in the form of large privileged commercial companies with rights ofmonopoly. the concept of national wealth nds its way into the works of the economists of the seventeenth century as the notion that wealth is created forthe state, whose power, on the other hand, is proportional to this wealth anotion which to some extent still survives even among eighteenth-centuryeconomists. this is still an unintentionally hypocritical manner in which

p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 128 karl marx wealth and the production of wealth are proclaimed to be the goal of the modern state, which is regarded merely as a means for producing wealth. the disposition of material has evidently to be made in such a way that [section] one comprises general abstra ct denitions, which therefore apper- tain in some measure to all social formations, but in the sense set forth ear-lier. two, the categories which constitute the internal structure of bourgeoissociety and on which the principal classes are based. capital, wage-labour,landed property and their relations to one another. t own and country. thethree large social classes; exchange between them. circulation. the (private)credit system. three, the state as the epitome of bourgeois society. analysis ofits relations to itself. the unproductive classes. taxes. national debt. publiccredit. population. colonies. emigration. four, international conditions ofproduction. international division of labour. international exchange. exportand import. rate of exchange. five, world market and crises. notes 1.marx,still using hegels terminology and his approach to the unity of the oppo- sites, counterposes the term verwirklichung (realisation) to entwirklichung(loss of realisation). 2.inthis manuscript marx frequently uses two similar german terms, ent ausserung and entfremdung, to express the notion of alienation. in the present edition the former is generally translated as alienation, the latter asestrangement, because in the later economic works ( theories of surplus-value ) marxhimself used the word alienation as the english equivalent of the term ent ausserung. 3.the term species-being (gattungswesen) is derived from ludwig feuerbachs philosophy where it is applied to man and mankind as a whole. 4.apparently marx refers to proudhons book quest-ce que la propri ete?, paris, 1841. 5.this passage shows that marx here uses the category of wages in a broad sense,as an expression of antagonistic relations between the classes of capitalists and ofwage-workers. under the wages he understands the wage-labour, the capi-talist system as such. this idea was apparently elaborated in detail in that part ofthe manuscript which is now extant. 6.this apparently refers to the conversion of individuals into members of civilsociety which is considered as the sphere of property, of material relations thatdetermine all other relations. in this case marx refers to the material relations ofsociety based on private property and the antagonism of different classes.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 six the limitations of marginal utility thorstein veblen thorstein veblen (18571929) was born in wisconsin and received his ph.d. from yale. he taught at the university of chicago and at several other schools. given his irascibility and his radical criticisms of american society, he was unable to nd apermanent position. veblen did, however, gain considerable renown he was even offered the presidency of the american economic association (which he turneddown). veblen was, as in the essay reprinted here, a persistent critic of neoclassicaleconomics. in the last two decades, interest in veblens economics and the work ofother institutionalist economists has increased signicantly. the limitations of the marginal-utility economics are sharp and character- istic. it is from rst to last a doctrine of value, and in point of form andmethod it is a theory of valuation. the whole system, therefore, lies withinthe theoretical eld of distribution, and it has but a secondary bearing onany other economic phenomena than those of distribution the term beingtaken in its accepted sense of pecuniary distribution, or distribution in pointof ownership. now and again an attempt is made to extend the use of theprinciple of marginal utility beyond this range, so as to apply it to questionsof production, but hitherto without sensible effect, and necessarily so. themost ingenious and the most promising of such attempts have been thoseof mr. clark, whose work marks the extreme range of endeavor and theextreme degree of success in so seeking to turn a postulate of distribution to account for a theory of production. but the outcome has been a doctrine ofthe production of values, and value, in mr. clarks as in other utility systems,is a matter of valuation; which throws the whole excursion back into the eldof distribution. similarly, as regards attempts to make use of this principlein an analysis of the phenomena of consumption, the best results arrived from the limitation of marginal utility, by thorstein veblen, journal of political economy vol. 17 (1909): 62036. 129

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 130 thorstein veblen at are some formulation of the pecuniary distribution of consumption goods. within this limited range marginal-utility theory is of a wholly statisti- cal character. it offers no theory of a movement of any kind, being occu-pied with the adjustment of values to a given situation. of this again, nomore convincing illustration need be had than is afforded by the work ofmr. clark, which is not excelled in point of earnestness, perseverance, orinsight. for all their use of the term dynamic, neither mr. clark nor anyof his associates in this line of research have yet contributed anything at allappreciable to a theory of genesis, growth, sequence, change, process, orthe like, in economic life. they have had something to say as to the bearingwhich given economic changes, accepted as premises, may have on valua-tion, and so on distribution; but as to the causes or the unfolding sequenceof the phenomena of economic life they had nothing to say hitherto; norcan they, since their theory is not drawn in causal terms but in terms ofteleology. inall this the marginal-utility school is substantially at one with the classical economics of the nineteenth century, the difference between thetwo being that the former is conned within narrower limits and sticks moreconsistently to its teleological premises. both are teleological, and neither can consistently admit arguments from cause to effect in the formulation oftheir main articles of theory. neither can deal theoretically with phenomenaof change, but at the most only with rational adjustment to change whichmay be supposed to have supervened. tothe modern scientist the phenomena of growth and change are the most obstrusive and most consequential facts observable in economic life.foranunderstanding of modern economic life the technological advance of the past two centuries e.g.,the growth of the industrial arts is of the rst importance; but marginal-utility theory does not bear on this matter, nordoes this matter bear on marginal-utility theory. as a means of theoretically accounting for this technological movement in the past or in the present,or even as a means of formally, technically stating it as an element in thecurrent economic situation, that doctrine and all its works are altogetheridle. the like is true for the sequence of change that is going forward in thepecuniary relations of modern life; the hedonistic postulate and its proposi- tions of differential utility neither have served nor can serve an inquiry intothese phenomena of growth, although the whole body of marginal-utilityeconomics lies with the range of these pecuniary phenomena. it has nothingtosay to the growth of business usages and expedients or to the concomitant changes in the principles of conduct which govern the pecuniary relations

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 the limitations of marginal utility 131 of men, which condition and are conditioned by these altered relations of business life or which bring them to pass. itis characteristic of the school that whenever an element of the cultural fabric, an institution or any institutional phenomenon, is involved in thefacts with which the theory is occupied, such institutional facts are takenfor granted, denied, or explained away. if it is a question of price, there isoffered an explanation of how exchanges may take place with such effectas to leave money and price out of the account. if it is a question of credit,the effect of credit extension on business trafc is left on one side and thereis an explanation of how the borrower and lender co operate to smooth out their respective income streams of consumable goods or sensations ofconsumption. the failure of the school in this respect is consistent and comprehensive. and yet these economists are lacking neither in intelligence nor in information. they are, indeed, to be credited, commonly, with awide range of information and an exact control of materials, as well as with avery alert interest in what is going on; and apart from their theoretical pronouncements the members of the school habitually profess the sanestand most intelligent views of current practical questions, even when thesequestions touch matters of institutional growth and decay. the inrmity of this theoretical scheme lies in its postulates, which con- ne the inquiry to generalisations of the teleological or deductive order.these postulates, together with the point of view and logical method that fol-low from them, the marginal-utility school shares with other economists ofthe classical line for this school is but a branch or derivative of the englishclassical economists of the nineteenth century. the substantial differencebetween this school and the generality of classical economists lies mainlyin the fact that in the marginal-utility economics the common postulatesare more consistently adhered to at the same time that they are more neatlydened and their limitations are more adequately realized. both the classicalschool in general and its specialized variant, the marginal-utility school, inparticular, take as their common point of departure the traditional psychol-ogy of the early nineteenth-century hedonists, which is accepted as a matterof course or of common notoriety and is held quite uncritically. the centraland well-dened tenet so held is that of the hedonistic calculus. under theguidance of this tenet and of the other psychological conceptions associatedand consonant with it, human conduct is conceived of and interpreted asarational response to the exigencies of the situation in which mankind is placed; as regards economic conduct it is such a rational and unprejudicedresponse to the stimulus of anticipated pleasure and pain being typically and in the main, a response to the promptings of anticipated pleasure, for the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 132 thorstein veblen hedonists of the nineteenth century and of the marginal-utility school are in the main of an optimistic temper.1mankind is, on the whole and normally, (conceived to be) clearsighted and farsighted in its appreciation of futuresensuous gains and losses, although there may be some (inconsiderable)difference between men in this respect. mens activities differ, therefore,(inconsiderably) in respect of the alertness of the response and the nicetyof adjustment of irksome pain-cost to apprehended future sensuous gain;but, in the whole, no other ground or line or guidance of conduct than thisrationalistic calculus falls properly within the cognizance of the economic hedonists. such a theory can take account of conduct only in so far as it isrational conduct, guided by deliberate and exhaustively intelligent choice wise adaptation to the demands of the main chance. the external circumstances which condition conduct are variable, of course, and so they will have a varying effect upon conduct; but their varia- tion is, in effect, construed to be of such a character only as to vary the degreeof strain to which the human agent is subject by contact with these externalcircumstances. the cultural elements involved in the theoretical scheme,elements that are of the nature of institutions, human relations governed byuse and wont in whatever kind and connection, are not subject to inquirybut are taken for granted as pre-existing in a nished, typical form and asmaking up a normal and denitive economic situation, under which and intermsofwhich human intercourse is necessarily carried on. this cultural situation comprises a few large and simple articles of institutional furniture,together with their logical implications or corollaries; but it includes nothing of the consequences or effects caused by these institutional elements. thecultural elements so tacitly postulated as immutable conditions precedenttoeconomic life are ownership and free contract, together with such other features of the scheme of natural rights as are implied in the exercise of these.these cultural products are, for the purpose of the theory, conceived to begivenap riori in unmitigated force. they are part of the nature of things; so that there is no need of accounting for them or inquiring into them, asto how they have com et ob es u c ha st h e ya r e ,o rh o wa n dw h yt h e yh a v e changed and are changing, or what effect all this may have on the relations of men who live by or under this cultural situation. evidently the acceptance of these immutable premises, tacitly, because uncritically and as a matter of course, by hedonistic economics gives thescience a distinctive character and places it in contrast with other scienceswhose premises are of a different order. as has already been indicated, thepremises in question, so far as they are peculiar to the hedonistic economics,are ( a)acertain institutional situation, the substantial feature of which is the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 the limitations of marginal utility 133 natural right of ownership, and ( b)the hedonistic calculus. the distinctive character given to this system of theory by these postulates and by the point of view resulting from their acceptance may be summed up broadly andconcisely in saying that the theory is conned to the ground of sufcient reason instead of proceeding on the ground of efcient cause. the contrary is true of modern science, generally (except mathematics), particularly of such sciences as have to do with the phenomena of life and growth. the differencemay seem trivial. it is serious only in its consequences. the two methods ofinference from sufcient reason and from efcient cause are out of touchwith one another and there is no transition from one to the other: no method of converting the procedure or the results of the one into those of the other.the immediate consequence is that the resulting economic theory is of a tele-ological character deductive or a priori as it is often called insteadof being drawn in terms of cause and effect. the relation sought by thistheory among the facts with which it is occupied is the control exercisedby future (apprehended) events over present conduct. current phenomena are dealt with as conditioned by their future consequences; and in strictmarginal-utility theory they can be dealt with only in respect of their con-trol of the present by consideration of the future. such a (logical) relation of control or guidance between the future and the present of course involves an exercise of intelligence, a taking thought, and hence an intelligent agentthrough whose discriminating forethought the apprehended future mayaffect the current course of events; unless, indeed, one were to admit some-thing in the way of a providential order of nature or some occult line ofstress of the nature of sympathetic magic. barring magical and providentialelements, the relation of sufcient reason runs by way of the interested dis-crimination, the forethought, of an agent who takes thought of the futureand guides his present activity by regard for this future. the relation ofsufcient reason runs only from the (apprehended) future into the present,and it is solely of an intellectual, subjecti ve,personal, teleological character and force; while the relation of cause and effect runs only in the contrarydirection, and it is solely of an object ive, impersonal, materialistic character and force. the modern scheme of knowledge, on the whole, rests, for itsdenitive ground, on the relation of cause and effect; the relation of suf-cient reason being admitted only provisionally and as a proximate factorin the analysis, always with the unambiguous reservation that the analysismust ultimately come to rest in terms of cause and effect. the merits of this scientic animus, of course, do not concern the present argument. now,it happens that the relation of sufcient reason enters very substan- tially into human conduct. it is this element of discriminating forethought

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 134 thorstein veblen that distinguishes human conduct from brute behavior. and since the economists subject of inquiry is this human conduct, that relation necessar-ily comes in for a large share of his attention in any theoretical formulationof economic phenomena, whether hedonistic or otherwise. but while mod-ern science at large has made the causal relation the sole ultimate ground oftheoretical formulation; and while the other sciences that deal with humanlife admit the relation of sufcient reason as a proximate, supplementary,or intermediate ground, subsidiary, and subservient to the argument fromcause to effect; economics has had the misfortune as seen from the sci-entic point of view to let the former supplant the latter. it is, of course,true that human conduct is distinguished from other natural phenomena bythe human faculty for taking thought, and any science that has to do with human conduct must face the patent fact that the details of such conduct consequently fall into the teleological form; but it is the peculiarity of the hedonistic economics that by force of its postulates its attention is connedtothis teleological bearing of conduct alone. it deals with this conduct only in so far as it may be construed in rationalistic, teleological terms of calcula-tion and choice. but it is at the same time no less true that human conduct,economic or otherwise, is subject to the sequence of cause and effect, byforce of such elements as habituation and conventional requirements. butfacts of this order, which are to modern science of graver interest than theteleological details of conduct, necessar ily fall outside the attention of the hedonistic economist, because they cannot be construed in terms of suf-cient reason, such as his postulates demand, or be tted into a scheme ofteleological doctrines. there is, therefore, no call to impugn these premises of the marginal- utility economics within their eld. they commend themselves to all seriousand uncritical persons at the rst glance. they are principles of action whichunderlie the current, business-like scheme of economic life, and as such, aspractical grounds of conduct, they a renot to be called in question without questioning the existing law and order. as a matter of course, men ordertheir lives by these principles and, practically, entertain no question of theirstability and nality. that is what is meant by calling them institutions;they are settled habits of thought common to the generality of men. but itwould be mere absentmindedness in any student of civilization therefore to admit that these or any other human institutions have this stability which iscurrently imputed to them or that they are in this way intrinsic to the natureof things. the acceptance by the economists of these or other institutionalelements as given and immutable limits their inquiry in a particular anddecisive way. it shuts off the inquiry at the point where the modern scientic

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 the limitations of marginal utility 135 interest sets in. the institutions in question are no doubt good for their purpose as institutions, but they are not good as premises for a scienticinquiry into the nature, origin, growth, and effects of these institutions andof the mutations which they undergo and which they bring to pass in thecommunitys scheme of life. toany modern scientist interested in economic phenomena, the chain of cause and effect in which any given phase of human culture is involved,as well as the cumulative changes wrought in the fabric of human conductitself by the habitual activity of mankind, are matters of more engrossing andmore abiding interest than the method of inference by which an individualis presumed invariably to balance pleasure and pain under given conditionsthat are presumed to be normal and invariable. the former are questions ofthe life-history of the race or the community, questions of cultural growthand of the fortunes of generations; while the latter is a question of individualcasuistry in the face of a given situation that may arise in the course of thiscultural growth. the former bear on the continuity and mutations of thatscheme of conduct whereby mankind deals with its material means of life; thelatter, if it is conceived in hedonistic terms, concerns a disconnected episodein the sensuous experience of an individual member of such a community. inso far as modern science inquires into the phenomena of life, whether inanimate, brute, or human, it is occupied about questions of genesis andcumulative change, and it converges upon a theoretical formulation in theshape of a life-history drawn in causal terms. in so far as it is a science in thecurrent sense of the term, any science, such as economics, which has to dowith human conduct, becomes a genetic inquiry into the human scheme of life; and where, as in economics, the subject of inquiry is the conduct ofman in his dealings with the material means of life, the science is necessarilyan inquiry into the life-history of material civilization, on a more or lessextended or restricted plan. not that the economists inquiry isolates mate- rial civilization from all other phases and bearings of human culture, and so studies the motions of an abstractly conceived economic man. on thecontrary, no theoretical inquiry into this material civilization that shall be at all adequate to any scientic purpose can be carried out without takingthis material civilization in its causal, that is to say, its genetic, relations toother phases and bearings of the cultural complex; without studying it as it iswrought upon by other lines of cultural growth and as working its effects in these other lines. but in so far as the inquiry is economic science, specically,the attention will converge upon the scheme of material life and will takein other phases of civilization only in their correlation with the scheme ofmaterial civilization.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 136 thorstein veblen like all human culture this material civilization is a scheme of institu- tions institutional fabric and institutional growth. but institutions arean outgrowth of habit. the growth of culture is a cumulative sequence ofhabituation, and the ways and means of it are the habitual response ofhuman nature to exigencies that vary incontinently, cumulatively, but with something of a consistent sequence in the cumulative variations that so goforward, incontinently, because each new move creates a new situationwhich induces a further new variation in the habitual manner of response;cumulatively, because each new situation is a variation of what has gonebefore it and embodies as causal factors all that has been effected by whatwent before; consistently, because the underlying traits of human nature (propensities, aptitudes, and what not) by force of which the response takesplace, and on the ground of which the habituation takes effect, remain sub-stantially unchanged. evidently an economic inquiry which occupies itself exclusively with the movements of this consistent, elemental human nature under given, stableinstitutional conditions such as is the case with the current hedonisticeconomics can reach statical results alone; since it makes abstraction fromthose elements that make for anything but a statical result. on the other handan adequate theory of economic conduct, even for statical purposes, cannotbe drawn in terms of the individual simply as is the case in the marginal-utility economics because it cannot be drawn in terms of the underlyingtraits of human nature simply; since the response that goes to make up human conduct takes place under institutional norms and only under stim- uli that have an institutional bearing; for the situation that provokes andinhibits action in any given case is itself in great part of institutional, culturalderivation. then, too, the phenomena of human life occur only as phenom-ena of the life of a group or community: only under stimuli due to contactwith the group and only under the (habitual) control exercised by canons of conduct imposed by the groups scheme of life. not only is the individuals cond uct hedged about and directed by his habitual relations to his fellows in the group, but these relations, being of an institutional character, varyas the institutional scheme varies. the wants and desires, the end and aim,the ways and means, the amplitude and drift of the individuals conduct arefunctions of an institutional variable that is of a highly complex and wholly unstable character. the growth and mutations of the institutional fabric are an outcome of the conduct of the individual members of the group, since it is out of theexperience of the individuals, through the habituation of individuals, that institutions arise; and it is in this same experience that these institutions act

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 the limitations of marginal utility 137 todirect and dene the aims and end of conduct. it is, of course, on individ- uals that the system of institutions imposes those conventional standards,ideals, and canons of conduct that make up the communitys scheme of life.scientic inquiry in this eld, therefore, must deal with individual conductand must formulate its theoretical results in terms of individual conduct.butsuch an inquiry can serve the purposes of a genetic theory only if and in so far as this individual conduct is att ended to in those respects in which it counts toward habituation, and so toward change (or stability) of theinstitutional fabric, on the one hand, and in those respects in which it is prompted and guided by the received institutional conceptions and idealson the other hand. the postulates of marginal utility, and the hedonisticpreconceptions generally, fail at this point in that they conne the attentiontosuch bearings of economic conduct as are conceived not to be conditioned byhabitual standards and ideals and to have no effect in the way of habitua- tion. they disregard or abstract from the causal sequence of propensity andhabituation in economic life and exclude from theoretical inquiry all suchinterest in the facts of cultural growth, in order to attend to those featuresof the case that are conceived to be idle in this respect. all such facts of institutional force and growth are put on one side as not being germane topure theory; they are to be taken account of, if at all, by afterthought, by amore or less vague and general allowance for inconsequential disturbancesdue to occasional human inrmity. certain institutional phenomena, it istrue, are comprised among the premises of the hedonists, as has been noted above; but they are included as postulates a priori. so the institution ofownership is taken into the inquiry not as a factor of growth or an element subject to change, but as one of the primordial and immutable facts of theorder of nature, underlying the hedonistic calculus. property, ownership, ispresumed as the basis of hedonistic discrimination and it is conceived tobe given in its nished (nineteenth-century) scope and force. there is nothought either of a conceivable growth of this denitive nineteenth-centuryinstitution out of a cruder past or of any conceivable cumulative change inthe scope and force of ownership in the present or future. nor is it conceivedthat the presence of this institutional element in mens economic relationsin any degree affects or disguises the hedonistic calculus, or that its pecu-niary conceptions and standards in any degree standardize, color, mitigate,or divert the hedonistic calculator from the direct and unhampered quest ofthe net sensuous gain. while the institution of property is included in thisway among the postulates of the theory, and is even presumed to be ever-present in the economic situation, it is allowed to have no force in shapingeconomic conduct, which is conceived to run its course to its hedonistic

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 138 thorstein veblen outcome as if no such institutional factor intervened between the impulse and its realization. the institution of property, together with all the rangeof pecuniary conceptions that belong under it and that cluster about it, arepresumed to give rise to no habitual or conventional canons of conduct orstandards of valuation, no proximate ends, ideals, or aspirations. all pecu-niary notions arising from ownership are treated simply as expedients ofcomputation which mediate between the pain-cost and the pleasure-gain of hedonistic choice, without lag, leak, or friction; they are conceived simplyas the immutably correct, god-given notation of the hedonistic calculus. the modern economic situation is a business situation, in that economic activity of all kinds is commonly controlled by business considerations. theexigencies of modern life are commonly pecuniary exigencies. that is to say they are exigencies of the ownership of property. productive efciencyand distributive gain are both rated in terms of price. business considera-tions are considerations of price, and pecuniary exigencies of whatever kindin the modern communities are exigencies of price. the current economicsituation is a price system. economic institutions in the modern civilizedscheme of life are (prevailingly) institutions of the price system. the accoun-tancy to which all phenomena of modern economic life are amenable is anaccountancy in terms of price; and by the current convention there is noother recognized scheme of accountancy, no other rating, either in law orin fact, to which the facts of modern life are held amenable. indeed, so greatand pervading a force has this habit (institution) of pecuniary accountancybecome that it extends, often as a matter of course, to many facts whichproperly have no pecuniary bearing and no pecuniary magnitude, as, e.g., worksofart,science, scholarship, and religion. more or less freely and fully, the price system dominates the current commonsense in its appreciationand rating of these non-pecuniary ramications of modern culture; andthis in spite of the fact that, on reection, all men of normal intelligence willfreely admit that these matters lie outside the scope of pecuniary valuation. current popular taste and the popular sense of merit and demerit are notoriously affected in some degree by pecuniary considerations. it is amatter of common notoriety, not to be denied or explained away, that pecu-niary (commercial) tests and standards are habitually made use of outsideof commercial interests proper. precious stones, it is admitted, even by hedo-nistic economists, are more esteemed than they would be if they were moreplentiful and cheaper. a wealthy person meets with more consideration andenjoys a larger measure of good repute than would fall to the share of thesame person with the same habit of mind and body and the same recordof good and evil deeds if he were poorer. it may well be that this current

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 the limitations of marginal utility 139 commercialisation of taste and appreciation has been overstated by super- cial and hasty critics of contemporary life, but it will not be denied thatthere is a modicum of truth in the allegation. whatever substance it has,muchor little, is due to carrying over into other elds of interest the habit- ual conceptions induced by dealing with and thinking of pecuniary matters.these commercial conceptions of merit and demerit are derived frombusiness experience. the pecuniary tests and standards so applied outsideof business transactions and relations are not reducible to sensuous termsof pleasure and pain. indeed, it may, e.g.,b et r u e , as is commonly believed, that the contemplation of a wealthy neighbors pecuniary superiority yieldspainful rather than pleasurable sensations as an immediate result; but itis equally true that such a wealthy neighbor is, on the whole, more highlyregarded and more considerately treated than another neighbor who differs from the former only in being less enviable in respect of wealth. itis the institution of property that gives rise to these habitual grounds of discrimination, and in modern times, when wealth is counted in terms ofmoney, it is in terms of money value that these tests and standards of pecu-niary excellence are applied. this much will be admitted. pecuniary institu-tions induce pecuniary habits of thought which affect mens discriminationoutside of pecuniary matters; but the hedonistic interpretation alleges thatsuch pecuniary habits of thought do not affect mens discrimination in pecu-niary matters. although the institutional scheme of the price system visiblydominates the modern communitys thinking in matters that lie outside theeconomic interest, the hedonistic economists insist, in effect, that this insti-tutional scheme must be accounted of no effect within that range of activitytowhich it owes its genesis, growth, and persistence. the phenomena of business, which are peculiarly and uniformly phenomena of price, are inthe scheme of the hedonistic theory reduced to non-pecuniary hedonistictermsand the theoretical formulation is carried out as if pecuniary concep- tions had no force within the trafc in which such conceptions originate.itis admitted that preoccupation with commercial interests has commer- cialised the rest of modern life, but the commercialisation of commerce isnot admitted. business transactions and computations in pecuniary terms,such as loans, discounts, and capitalisation, are without hesitation or abate-ment converted into terms of hedonistic utility, and conversely. itmay be needless to take exception to such conversion from pecuniary into sensuous terms, for the theoretical purpose for which it is habitu-ally made; although, if need were, it might not be excessively difcult toshow that the whole hedonistic basis of such a conversion is a psychologicalmisconception. but it is to the remoter theoretical consequences of such a

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 140 thorstein veblen conversion that exception is to be taken. in making the conversion abstrac- tion is made from whatever elements do not lend themselves to its terms;which amounts to abstracting from precisely those elements of business thathave an institutional force and that therefore would lend themselves to sci-entic inquiry of the modern kind those (institutional) elements whoseanalysis might contribute to an understanding of modern business and ofthe life of the modern business community as contrasted with the assumedprimordial hedonistic calculus. the point may perhaps be made clearer. money and the habitual resort toits use are conceived to be simply the ways and means by which con- sumable goods are acquired, and the refore simply a convenient method by which to procure the pleasurable sensations of consumption; these latterbeing in hedonistic theory the sole and overt end of all economic endeavor.money values have therefore no other signicance than that of purchas- ing power over consumable goods, and money is simply an expedient ofcomputation. investment, credit exte nsions, loans of all kinds and degrees, with payment of interest and the rest, are likewise taken simply as inter- mediate steps between the pleasurable sensations of consumption and theefforts induced by the anticipation of these sensations, other bearings ofthe case being disregarded. the balance being kept in terms of the hedo-nistic consumption, no disturbance arises in this pecuniary trafc so longas the extreme terms of this extended hedonistic equation pain-cost andpleasure-gain are not altered, what lies between these extreme terms beingmerely algebraic notation employed for convenience of accountancy. butsuch is not the run of the facts in modern business. variations of capi-talization, e.g.,occur without its being practicable to refer them to visibly equivalent variations either in the state of the industrial arts or in the sen-sations of consumption. credit extensions tend to ination of credit, risingprices, overstocking of markets, etc., likewise without a visible or securelytraceable correlation in the state of the industrial arts or in the pleasures of consumption; that is to say, without a visible basis in those material elements towhich the hedonistic theory reduces all economic phenomena. hence the runofthe facts, in so far, must be thrown out of the theoretical formulation. the hedonistically presumed nal pur chase of consumable goods is habit- ually not contemplated in the pursuit of business enterprise. business menhabitually aspire to accumulate wealth in excess of the limits of practicableconsumption, and the wealth so accumulated is not intended to be converted byanal transaction of purchase into consumable goods or sensations of consumption. such commonplace facts as these, together with the endless webofbusiness detail of a like pecuniary character, do not in hedonistic

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 the limitations of marginal utility 141 theory raise a question as to how these conventional aims, ideals, aspira- tions, and standards have come into force or how they affect the scheme oflife in business or outside of it; they do not raise those questions because suchquestions cannot be answered in the terms which the hedonistic economistsare content to use, or, indeed, which their premises permit them to use. thequestion which arises is how to explain the facts away: how theoretically toneutralize them so that they will not have to appear in the theory, whichcan then be drawn in direct and unambiguous terms of rational hedonisticcalculation. they are explained away as being aberrations due to oversightor lapse of memory on the part of business men, or to some failure oflogic or insight. or they are construed and interpreted into the rationalistictermsofthe hedonistic calculus by resort to an ambiguous use of the hedo- nistic concepts. so that the whole money economy, with all the machineryof credit and the rest, disappears in a tissue of metaphors to reappear the-oretically expurgated, sterilized, and simplied into a rened system ofbarter, culminating in a net aggregate maximum of pleasurable sensationsof consumption. butsince it is in just this unhedonistic, unrationalistic pecuniary trafc that the tissue of business life consists; since it is this peculiar conventional-ism of aims and standards that differentiates the life of the modern businesscommunity from any conceivable earlier or cruder phase of economic life; since it is in this tissue of pecuniary intercourse and pecuniary concepts, ide-als, expedients, and aspirations that the conjunctures of business life ariseand run their course of felicity and devastation; since it is here that thoseinstitutional changes take place which distinguish one phase or era of thebusiness communitys life from any other; since the growth and change ofthese habitual, conventional elements make the growth and character of anybusiness era or business community; any theory of business which sets theseelements aside or explains them away misses the main facts which it has goneout to seek. life and its conjunctures and institutions being of this complex-ion, however much that state of the case may be deprecated, a theoreticalaccount of the phenomena of this life must be drawn in these terms in whichthe phenomena occur. it is not simply that the hedonistic interpretation ofmodern economic phenomena is inadequate or misleading; if the phenom-ena are subjected to the hedonistic int erpretation in the theoretical analysis they disappear from the theory; and if they would bear the interpretationin fact they would disappear in fact. if, in fact, all the conventional relationsand principles of pecuniary intercourse were subject to such a perpetualrationalized, calculating revision, so that each article of usage, appreciation, or procedure must approve itself de novo on hedonistic grounds of sensuous

p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 142 thorstein veblen expediency to all concerned at every move, it is not conceivable that the institutional fabric would last over night. note 1.the conduct of mankind differs from that of the brutes in being determined by anticipated sensations of pleasure and pain, instead of actual sensations. hereby,in so far, human conduct is taken out of the sequence of cause and effect andfalls instead under the rule of sufcient reason. by virtue of this rational facultyin man the connection between stimulus and response is teleological instead ofcausal. the reason for assigning the rst and decisive place to pleasure, rather than to pain, in the determination of human conduct, appears to be the (tacit) acceptance of that optimistic doctrine of a benecent order of nature which the nineteenthcentury inherited from the eighteenth.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 part two positivist and popperian views the development of logical positivism and of karl poppers views (see the introduction to this volume) had a signicant impact on the methodologyof economics. economists such as t erence hutchison and paul samuelsonnoted that much of economic theory appeared not to satisfy logical posi-tivist or popperian standards of theory assessment, and the 1930s and 1940ssaw naive tests of fundamental principles of the theory of the rm, whichappeared to refute them. this serious challenge was met mainly by miltonfriedman, whose essay reprinted here is the most inuential methodologi- cal tract of modern times. it has been subjected to a barrage of criticism, ofwhich herbert simons and my own brief comments are only a tiny sample. although imre lakatoss work on philosophy of science dates from much later and shows the inuence of thomas kuhns views, lakatoss views ontheory assessment are closely related to poppers, and both were inuentialamong economic methodologists in the 1970s and 1980s. the last essay inthis part by d. wade hands compactly summarizes the issues that arise inapplying karl poppers and imre lakatoss views to economics. 143

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 144

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 seven the methodology of positive economics milton friedman milton friedman (19122006) was born in brooklyn, new y ork, and received his ph.d. in economics from columbia university. he taught at the university of min- nesota, and then for many years at the university of chicago. after 1977, he was asenior research fellow at the hoover institution in stanford, california. friedmanis best known for his work in monetary theory and for his concern for free enterpriseand individual liberty. milton friedman was awarded the nobel prize in economicsin 1976. the following essay, which is reprinted in its entirety, is the most inuentialworkon economic methodology of this century. inhis admirable book on the scope and method of political economy john neville keynes distinguishes among a positive science ...[,] a body of systematized knowledge concerning what is; a normative orregulative science...[,] a body of systematized knowledge discussing criteria of what ought to be ...;a nart...[,] a system of rules for the attainment of a given end; comments that confusion between them is common and has been the source of many mischievous errors; and urges the importance of rec-ognizing a distinct positive science of political economy. 1 this [essay] is concerned primarily with certain methodological problems that arise in constructing the distinct positive science keynes called for in particular, the problem how to decide whether a suggested hypothesis ortheory should be tentatively accepted as part of the body of systematized ihaveincorporated bodily in this article without special reference most of my brief comment in asurvey of contemporary economics ,vol. ii (b. f. haley, ed.) (chicago: richard d. irwin, inc., 1952), pp. 4557. ia mi n d e b t e dt od o r o t h ys .b r a d y ,a r t h u rf .b u r ns, and george j. stigler for helpful comments and criticism. from essays in positive economics ,bymilton friedman. chicago: university of chicago press, 1953. copyright c circlecopyrt1953 by the university of chicago. reprinted by permission of the university of chicago. 145

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 146 milton friedman knowledge concerning what is. but the confusion keynes laments is still so rife and so much of a hindrance to the recognition that economics canbe, and in part is, a positive science that it seems well to preface the mainbody of the paper with a few remarks about the relation between positiveand normative economics. i. the relation between positive and normative economics confusion between positive and normative economics is to some extent inevitable. the subject matter of economics is regarded by almost everyoneas vitally important to himself and within the range of his own experienceand competence; it is the source of continuous and extensive controversyand the occasion for frequent legislatio n. self-proclaimed experts speak with many voices and can hardly all be regarded as disinterested; in any event, on questions that matter so much, expert opinion could hardly be accepted solely on faith even if the experts were nearly unanimous andclearly disinterested. 2the conclusions of positive economics seem to be, and are, immediately relevant to important normative problems, to questionsof what ought to be done and how any given goal can be attained. laymenand experts alike are inevitably tempted to shape positive conclusions to tstrongly held normative preconceptions and to reject positive conclusionsif their normative implications or what are said to be their normativeimplications are unpalatable. positive economics is in principle independent of any particular ethical position or normative judgments. as keynes says, it deals with what is,not with what ought to be. its task is to provide a system of generalizationsthat can be used to make correct predictions about the consequences of anychange in circumstances. its performance is to be judged by the precision, scope, and conformity with experience of the predictions it yields. in short,positive economics is, or can be, an objective science, in precisely the samesense as any of the physical sciences. of course, the fact that economics dealswith the interrelations of human beings, and that the investigator is himself part of the subject matter being investigated in a more intimate sense thanin the physical sciences, raises special difculties in achieving objectivity atthe same time that it provides the social scientist with a class of data notavailable to the physical scientist. but neither the one nor the other is, in my view, a fundamental distinction between the two groups of sciences. 3 normative economics and the art of economics, on the other hand, cannot be independent of positive economics. any policy conclusion necessarilyrests on a prediction about the consequences of doing one thing rather

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 147 than another, a prediction that must be based implicitly or explicitly on positive economics. there is not, of course, a one-to-one relation betweenpolicy conclusions and the conclusions of positive economics; if there were,there would be no separate normative science. two individuals may agree onthe consequences of a particular piece of legislation. one may regard themas desirable on balance and so favor the legislation; the other, as undesirableand so oppose the legislation. iventure the judgment, however, that currently in the western world, and especially in the united states, differences about economic policy among dis-interested citizens derive predominantly from different predictions aboutthe economic consequences of taking action differences that in princi-ple can be eliminated by the progress of positive economics rather thanfrom fundamental differences in basic values, differences about which mencan ultimately only ght. an obvious and not unimportant example isminimum-wage legislation. underneath the welter of arguments offeredfor and against such legislation there is an underlying consensus on theobjective of achieving a living wage for all, to use the ambiguous phrase socommon in such discussions. the difference of opinion is largely grounded on an implicit or explicit difference in predictions about the efcacy ofthis particular means in furthering the agreed-on end. proponents believe(predict) that legal minimum wages diminish poverty by raising the wagesof those receiving less than the minimum wage as well as of some receiv-ing more than the minimum wage without any counterbalancing increasein the number of people entirely unemployed or employed less advanta-geously than they otherwise would be. opponents believe (predict) thatlegal minimum wages increase poverty by increasing the number of peoplewho are unemployed or employed less advantageously and that this morethan offsets any favorable effect on the wages of those who remain employed.agreement about the economic consequences of the legislation might not produce complete agreement about its desirability, for differences might stillremain about its political or social consequences; but, given agreement on objectives, it would certainly go a long way toward producing consensus. closely related differences in positive analysis underlie divergent views about the appropriate role and place of trade-unions and the desirabilityof direct price and wage controls and of tariffs. different predictions aboutthe importance of so-called economics of scale account very largely fordivergent views about the desirability or necessity of detailed governmentregulation of industry and even of socialism rather than private enterprise. andthis list could be extended indenitely. 4of course, my judgment that the major differences about economic policy in the western world are of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 148 milton friedman this kind is itself a positive statement to be accepted or rejected on the basis of empirical evidence. ifthis judgment is valid, it means that a consensus on correct economic policy depends much less on the progress of normative economics properthan on the progress of a positive economics yielding conclusions that are,and deserve to be, widely accepted. it means also that a major reason fordistinguishing positive economics sharply from normative economics isprecisely the contribution that can thereby be made to agreement aboutpolicy. ii. positive economics the ultimate goal of a positive science is the development of a theory orhypothesis that yields valid and meaningful (i.e., not truistic) predictions about phenomena not yet observed. such a theory is, in general, a complexintermixture of two elements. in part, it is a language designed to promotesystematic and organized methods of reasoning. 5inpart, it is a body of substantive hypotheses designed to abstract essential features of complexreality. viewed as a language, theory has no substantive content; it is a set of tautologies. its function is to serve as a ling system for organizing empiricalmaterial and facilitating our understanding of it; and the criteria by whichit is to be judged are those appropriate to a ling system. are the categoriesclearly and precisely dened? are they exhaustive? do we know where tole each individual item, or is there considerable ambiguity? is the systemof headings and subheadings so designed that we can quickly nd an itemwewant, or must we hunt from place to place? are the items we shall want toconsider jointly led together? does the ling system avoid elaborate cross-references? the answers to these questions depend partly on logical, partly on fac- tual, considerations. the canons of formal logic alone can show whetheraparticular language is complete and consistent, that is, whether propo- sitions in the language are right or wrong. factual evidence alone canshow whether the categories of the analytical ling system have a mean-ingful empirical counterpart, that is, whether they are useful in analyzingaparticular class of concrete problems. 6the simple example of supply and demand illustrates both this point and the preceding list of analogicalquestions. viewed as elements of the language of economic theory, theseare the two major categories into which factors affecting the relative pricesof products or factors of production are classied. the usefulness of the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 149 dichotomy depends on the empirical generalization that an enumeration of the forces affecting demand in any problem and of the forces affect-ing supply will yield two lists that contain few items in common. 7now this generalization is valid for markets like the nal market for a consumergood. in such a market there is a clear and sharp distinction between theeconomic units that can be regarded as demanding the product and thosethat can be regarded as supplying it. there is seldom much doubt whetheraparticular factor should be classied as affecting supply, on the one hand, or demand, on the other; and there is seldom much necessity for consid-ering cross-effects (cross-references) between the two categories. in thesecases the simple and even obvious step of ling the relevant factors underthe headings of supply and demand effects a great simplication of theproblem and is an effective safe guard against fallacies that otherwise tend to occur. but the generalization is not always valid. for example, it is not validfor the day-to-day uctuations of prices in a primarily speculative market.isar umor of an increased excess-prots tax, for example, to be regarded as a factor operating primarily on todays supply of corporate equities inthe stock market or on todays demand for them? in similar fashion, almostevery factor can with about as much justication be classied under the heading supply as under the heading demand. these concepts can stillbe used and may not be entirely pointless; they are still right but clearly lessuseful than in the rst example because they have no meaningful empiricalcounterpart. viewed as a body of substantive hypotheses, theory is to be judged by its predictive power for the class of phenomena which it is intended to explain.only factual evidence can show whether it is right or wrong or, better,tentatively accepted as valid or rejected. as i shall argue at greater length below, the only relevant test of the validity of a hypothesis is comparison of its predictions with experience. the hypothesis is rejected if its predic-tions are contradicted (frequently or more often than predictions from analternative hypothesis); it is accepted if its predictions are not contradicted;great condence is attached to it if it has survived many opportunities for contradiction. factual evidence can never prove a hypothesis; it can only fail to disprove it, which is what we generally mean when we say, somewhatinexactly, that the hypothesis has been conrmed by experience. toavoid confusion, it should perhaps be noted explicitly that the pre- dictions by which the validity of a hypothesis is tested need not be aboutphenomena that have not yet occurred, that is, need not be forecasts of futureevents; they may be about phenomena that have occurred but observations on which have not yet been made or are not known to the person making

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 150 milton friedman the prediction. for example, a hypothesis may imply that such and such must have happened in 1906, given some other known circumstances. if a search of the records reveals that such and such did happen, the predictionis conrmed; if it reveals that such and such did not happen, the predictionis contradicted. the validity of a hypothesis in this sense is not by itself a sufcient criterion for choosing among alternative hypotheses. observed facts are necessarilynite in number; possible hypotheses, innite. if there is one hypothesisthat is consistent with the available evidence, there are always an innitenumber that are. 8forexample, suppose a specic excise tax on a partic- ular commodity produces a rise in price equal to the amount of the tax.this is consistent with competitive conditions, a stable demand curve, andahorizontal and stable supply curve. but it is also consistent with competi- tive conditions and a positively or negatively sloping supply curve with therequired compensating shift in the demand curve or the supply curve; with monopolistic conditions, constant marginal costs, and stable demand curve,of the particular shape required to produce this result; and so on indenitely.additional evidence with which the hypothesis is to be consistent may rule out some of these possibilities; it can never reduce them to a single possi-bility alone capable of being consistent with the nite evidence. the choiceamong alternative hypotheses equally consistent with the available evidencemust to some extent be arbitrary, though there is general agreement that relevant considerations are suggested by the criteria simplicity and fruit- fulness, themselves notions that defy completely objective specication. atheory is simpler the less the initial knowledge needed to make a predic-tion within a given eld of phenomena; it is more fruitful the more precisethe resulting prediction, the wider the area within which the theory yieldspredictions, and the more additional lines for further research it suggests.logical completeness and consistency are relevant but play a subsidiary role;their function is to assure that the hypothesis says what it is intended to sayand does so alike for all users they play the same role here as checks forarithmetical accuracy do in statistical computations. unfortunately, we can seldom test particular predictions in the social sciences by experiments explicitly designed to eliminate what are judged tobe the most important disturbing inuences. generally, we must rely onevidence cast up by the experiments that happen to occur. the inability toconduct so-called controlled experiments does not, in my view, reect abasic difference between the social and physical sciences both because it is not peculiar to the social sciences witness astronomy and because thedistinction between a controlled exper iment and uncontrolled experience is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 151 at best one of degree. no experiment can be completely controlled, and every experience is partly controlled, in the sense that some disturbing inuences are relatively constant in the course of it. evidence cast up by experience is abundant and frequently as conclusive as that from contrived experiments; thus the inability to conduct experi-ments is not a fundamental obstacle to testing hypotheses by the successof their predictions. but such evidence is far more difcult to interpret. itis frequently complex and always indirect and incomplete. its collection isoften arduous, and its interpretation generally requires subtle analysis andinvolved chains of reasoning, which seldom carry real conviction. the denialtoeconomics of the dramatic and direct evidence of the crucial experi- ment does hinder the adequate testing of hypotheses; but this is much lesssignicant than the difculty it places in the way of achieving a reasonablyprompt and wide consensus on the conclusions justied by the availableevidence. it renders the weeding-out of unsuccessful hypotheses slow and difcult. they are seldom downed for good and are always cropping upagain. there is, of course, considerable variation in these respects. occasionally, experience casts up evidence that is about as direct, dramatic, and convinc- ing as any that could be provided by controlled experiments. perhaps themost obviously important example is the evidence from inations on thehypothesis that a substantial increase in the quantity of money within a rel- atively short period is accompanied by a substantial increase in prices. herethe evidence is dramatic, and the chain of reasoning required to interpretit is relatively short. y et, despite numerous instances of substantial rises inprices, their essentially one-to-one correspondence with substantial risesin the stock of money, and the wide variation in other circumstances thatmight appear to be relevant, each new experience of ination brings forthvigorous contentions, and not only by the lay public, that the rise in the stock of money is either an incidental effect of a rise in prices producedbyother factors or a purely fortuitous and unnecessary concomitant of the price rise. one effect of the difculty of testing substantive economic hypotheses has been to foster a retreat into purely formal or tautological analysis. 9as already noted, tautologies have an extremely important place in economicsand other sciences as a specialized language or analytical ling system.beyond this, formal logic and mathematics, which are both tautologies,are essential aids in checking the correctness of reasoning, discovering theimplications of hypotheses, and determining whether supposedly differenthypotheses may not really be equivalent or wherein the differences lie.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 152 milton friedman but econo mic theory must be more than a structure of tautologies if it is to be able to predict and not merely describe the consequences of action; if it is to be something different from disguised mathematics.10and the usefulness of the tautologies themselves ultimately depends, as noted above,on the acceptability of the substantive hypotheses that suggest the particularcategories into which they organize the refractory empirical phenomena. am ore serious effect of the difculty of testing economic hypotheses bytheir predictions is to foster misunderstanding of the role of empirical evidence in theoretical work. empirical evidence is vital at two different, though closely related, stages: in constructing hypotheses and in testingtheir validity. full and comprehensive evidence on the phenomena to begeneralized or explained by a hypothesis, besides its obvious value insuggesting new hypotheses, is needed to assure that a hypothesis explainswhat it sets out to explain that its implications for such phenomena arenot contradicted in advance by experience that has already been observed. 11 given that the hypothesis is consistent with the evidence at hand, its furthertesting involves deducing from it new facts capable of being observed but not previously known and checking these deduced facts against additionalempirical evidence. for this test to be relevant, the deduced facts must beabout the class of phenomena the hypothesis is designed to explain; andthey must be well enough dened so that observation can show them to bewrong. the two stages of constructing hypotheses and testing their validity are related in two different respects. in the rst place, the particular facts that enter at each stage are partly an accident of the collection of data and theknowledge of the particular investigator. the facts that serve as a test ofthe implications of a hypothesis might equally well have been among theraw material used to construct it, and conversely. in the second place, the process never begins from scratch; the so-called initial stage itself alwaysinvolves comparison of the implications of an earlier set of hypotheses withobservation; the contradiction of these implications is the stimulus to theconstruction of new hypotheses or revision of old ones. so the two method- ologically distinct stages are always proceeding jointly. misunderstanding about this apparently straightforward process centers on the phrase the class of phenomena the hypothesis is designed to explain.the difculty in the social sciences of getting new evidence for this classof phenomena and of judging its conformity with the implications of thehypothesis makes it tempting to suppose that other, more readily available, evidence is equally relevant to the validity of the hypothesis to suppose that hypotheses have not only implications but also assumptions and that

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 153 the conformity of these assumptions to reality is a test of the validity of the hypothesis different from oradditional to the test by implications, this widely held view is fundamentally wrong and productive of much mischief. farfromproviding an easier means for sifting valid from invalid hypotheses, it only confuses the issue, promotes misunderstanding about the signicanceof empirical evidence for economic theory, produces a misdirection of muchintellectual effort devoted to the development of positive economics, andimpedes the attainment of consensus on tentative hypotheses in positiveeconomics. inso far as a theory can be said to have assumptions at all, and in so far as their realism can be judged independently of the validity of predic-tions, the relation between the signicance of a theory and the realismof its assumptions is almost the opposite of that suggested by the viewunder criticism. truly important and signicant hypotheses will be foundtohave assumptions that are wildly inaccurate descriptive representations of reality, and, in general, the more signicant the theory, the more unreal-istic the assumptions (in this sense). 12the reason is simple. a hypothesis is important if it explains much by little, that is, if it abstracts the commonand crucial elements from the mass of complex and detailed circumstancessurrounding the phenomena to be explained and permits valid predictionson the basis of them alone. t o be important, therefore, a hypothesis mustbe descriptively false in its assumptions; it takes account of, and accountsfor, none of the many other attendant circumstances, since its very successshows them to be irrelevant for the phenomena to be explained. toput this point less paradoxically, the relevant question to ask about the assumptions of a theory is not whether they are descriptively realistic, for they never are, but whether they are sufciently good approximationsfor the purpose in hand. and this question can be answered only by seeingwhether the theory works, which means whether it yields sufciently accu-ratepredictions. the two supposedly independent tests thus reduce to one test. the theory of monopolistic and imper fect competition is one example of the neglect in economic theory of these propositions. the development ofthis analysis was explicitly motivated, and its wide acceptance and approvallargely explained, by the belief that the assumptions of perfect competi-tion or perfect monopoly said to underlie neoclassical economic theoryare a false image of reality. and this belief was itself based almost entirelyon the directly perceived descriptive inaccuracy of the assumptions ratherthan on any recognized contradiction of predictions derived from neoclas-sical economic theory. the lengthy discussion on marginal analysis in the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 154 milton friedman american economic review some years ago is an even clearer, though much less important, example. the articles on both sides of the controversy largely neglect what seems to me clearly the main issue the conformity to expe-rience of the implications of the marginal analysis and concentrate on the largely irrelevant question whether businessmen do or do not in fact reachtheir decisions by consulting schedules, or curves, or multivariable functionsshowing marginal cost and marginal revenue. 13perhaps these two exam- ples, and the many others they readily suggest, will serve to justify a moreextensive discussion of the methodological principles involved than might otherwise seem appropriate. iii. can a hypothesis be tested by the realism of its assumptions? wemay start with a simple physical example, the law of falling bodies. it is an accepted hypothesis that the acceleration of a body dropped in a vacuum isaconstant g,orapproximately 32 feet per second per second on the earth and is independent of the shape of the body, the manner of dropping it, etc.this implies that the distance traveled by a falling body in any specied timeis given by the formula s 1 2gt 2,w h e r e sis the distance traveled in feet and tis time in seconds. the application of this formula to a compact ball dropped from the roof of a building is equivalent to saying that a ball sodropped behaves as if it were falling in a vacuum. t esting this hypothesis by its assumptions presumably means measuring the actual air pressure anddeciding whether it is close enough to zero. at sea level the air pressureis about 15 pounds per square inch. is 15 sufciently close to zero for thedifference to be judged insignicant? apparently it is, since the actual timetaken by a compact ball to fall from the roof of a building to the groundis very close to the time given by the formula. suppose, however, that afeather is dropped instead of a compact ball. the formula then gives wildlyinaccurate results. apparently, 15 pounds per square inch is signicantlydifferent from zero for a feather but not for a ball. or, again, suppose theformula is applied to a ball dropped from an airplane at an altitude of 30,000feet. the air pressure at this altitude is decidedly less than 15 pounds persquare inch. y et, the actual time of fall from 30,000 feet to 20,000 feet, atwhich point the air pressure is still much less than at sea level, will differnoticeably from the time predicted by the formula much more noticeablythan the time taken by a compact ball to fall from the roof of a building tothe ground. according to the formula, the velocity of the ball should be gt and should therefore increase steadily. in fact, a ball dropped at 30,000 feetwill reach its top velocity well before it hits the ground. and similarly with other implications of the formula.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 155 the initial question whether 15 is sufciently close to zero for the differ- ence to be judged insignicant is clearly afoolish question by itself. fifteen pounds per square inch is 2,160 pounds per square foot, or 0.0075 ton persquare inch. there is no possible basis for calling these numbers small orlarge without some external standard of comparison. and the only rele- vant standard of comparison is the air pressure for which the formula doesor does not work under a given set of circumstances. but this raises the sameproblem at a second level. what is the meaning of does or does not work?even if we could eliminate errors of measurement, the measured time of fall would seldom if ever be precisely equal to the computed time of fall.howlarge must the difference between the two be to justify saying that the theory does not work? here there are two important external standardsof comparison. one is the accuracy achievable by an alternative theory withwhich this theory is being compared and w hich is equally acceptable on all other grounds. the other arises when there exists a theory that is known toyield better predictions but only at a greater cost. the gains from greater accuracy, which depend on the purpose in mind, must then be balancedagainst the costs of achieving it. the example illustrates both the impossibility of testing a theory by its assumptions and also the ambiguity of the concept the assumptions of atheory. the formula s 1 2gt 2is valid for bodies falling in a vacuum and can be derived by analyzing the behavior of such bodies. it can therefore bestated: under a wide range of circumstances, bodies that fall in the actualatmosphere behave as if they were falling in a vacuum. in the language so common in economics this would be rapidly translated into: the formula assumes a vacuum. y et it clearly does no such thing. what it does say isthat in many cases the existence of air pressure, the shape of the body, thename of the person dropping the body, the kind of mechanism used to dropthe body, and a host of other attendant circumstances have no appreciableeffect on the distance the body falls in a specied time. the hypothesis canreadily be rephrased to omit all mention of a vacuum: under a wide range of circumstances, the distance a body falls in a specied time is given by theformula s 1 2gt 2.the history of this formula and its associated physical theory aside, is it meaningful to say that it assumes a vacuum? for all iknow there may be other sets of assumptions that would yield the sameformula. the formula is accepted because it works, not because we live inan approximate vacuum whatever that means. the important problem in connection with the hypothesis is to spec- ify the circumstances under which the formula works or, more precisely,the general magnitude of the error in its predictions under various circum-stances. indeed, as is implicit in the above rephrasing of the hypothesis, such

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 156 milton friedman aspecication is not one thing and the hypothesis another. the specication is itself an essential part of the hypothesis, and it is a part that is peculiarly likely to be revised and extended as experience accumulates. inthe particular case of falling bodies a more general, though still incom- plete, theory is available, largely as a result of attempts to explain the errorsof the simple theory, from which the inuence of some of the possible dis-turbing factors can be calculated and of which the simple theory is a specialcase. however, it does not always pay to use the more general theory becausethe extra accuracy it yields may not justify the extra cost of using it, so thequestion under what circumstances the simpler theory works well enoughremains important. air pressure is one, but only one, of the variables that dene these circumstances; the shape of the body, the velocity attained, andstill other variables are relevant as well. one way of interpreting the variablesother than air pressure is to regard them as determining whether a particulardeparture from the assumption of a vacuum is or is not signicant. forexample, the difference in shape of the body can be said to make 15 pounds per square inch signicantly different from zero for a feather but not for acompact ball dropped a moderate distance. such a statement must, however, be sharply distinguished from the very different statement that the theorydoes not work for a feather because its assumptions are false. the relevantrelation runs the other way: the assumptions are false for a feather because the theory does not work. this point needs emphasis, because the entirelyvalid use of assumptions in specifying the circumstances for which theory holds is frequently, and erroneously, interpreted to mean that the assump-tions can be used to determine the circumstances for which a theory holds, and has, in this way, been an important source of the belief that a theorycan be tested by its assumptions. letusturn now to another example, this time a constructed one designed tobe an analogue of many hypotheses in the social sciences. consider the density of leaves around a tree. i suggest the hypothesis that the leaves arepositioned as if each leaf deliberately sought to maximize the amount ofsunlight it receives, given the position of its neighbors, as if it knew thephysical laws determining the amount of sunlight that would be receivedin various positions and could move rapidly or instantaneously from anyone position to any other desired and unoccupied position. 14now some of the more obvious implications of this hypothesis are clearly consistentwith experience: for example, leaves are in general denser on the south than on the north side of trees but, as the hypothesis implies, less so or notat all on the northern slope of a hil lo rw h e n the south side of the trees is shaded in some other way. is the hypothesis rendered unacceptable or

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 157 invalid because, so far as we know, leaves do not deliberate or consciously seek, have not been to school and learned the relevant laws of science or the mathematics required to calculate the optimum position, and cannotmove from position to position? clearly, none of these contradictions of thehypothesis is vitally relevant; the phenomena involved are not within the class of phenomena the hypothesis is designed to explain; the hypothesis does not assert that leaves do these things but only that their density isthe same as if they did. despite the apparent falsity of the assumptions of the hypothesis, it has great plausibility because of the conformity of itsimplications with observation. we are inclined to explain its validity on theground that sunlight contributes to the growth of leaves and that hence leaves will grow de nser or more putative leaves survive where there is more sun, so the result achieved by purely passive adaptation to external circumstances isthe same as the result that would be achieved by deliberate accommodationtothem. this alternative hypothesis is more attractive than the constructed hypothesis not because its assumptions are more realistic but rather because it is part of a more general theory that applies to a wider variety ofphenomena, of which the position of leaves around a tree is a special case,has more implications capable of being contradicted, and has failed to becontradicted under a wider variety of circumstances. the direct evidence for the growth of leaves is in this way strengthened by the indirect evidencefrom the other phenomena to which the more general theory applies. the constructed hypothesis is presumably valid, that is, yields suf- ciently accurate predictions about the density of leaves, only for a partic-ular class of circumstances. i do not know what these circumstances are orhow to dene them. it seems obvious, however, that in this example theassumptions of the theory will play no part in specifying them: the kind of tree, the character of the soil, etc., are the types of variables that are likelytodene its range of validity, not the ability of the leaves to do complicated mathematics or to move from place to place. alargely parallel example involving human behavior has been used else- where by savage and me. 15consider the problem of predicting the shots made by an expert billiard player. it seems not at all unreasonable that excel-lent predictions would be yielded by the hypothesis that the billiard playermade his shots as if he knew the complicated mathematical formulas that would give the optimum directions of travel, could estimate accurately by eyethe angles, etc., describing the location of the balls, could make lightning calculations from the formulas, and could then make the balls travel in thedirection indicated by the formulas. our condence in this hypothesis isnot based on the belief that billiard players, even expert ones, can or do go

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 158 milton friedman through the process described; it derives rather from the belief that, unless in some way or other they were capable of reaching essentially the sameresult, they would not in fact be expert billiard players. itis only a short step from these examples to the economic hypothesis that under a wide range of circumstances individual rms behave as if they wereseeking rationally to maximize their expected returns (generally if misleadingly called prots) 16and had full knowledge of the data needed tosucceed in this attempt; as if,that is, they knew the relevant cost and demand functions, calculated marginal cost and marginal revenue from allactions open to them, and pushed each line of action to the point at whichthe relevant marginal cost and marginal revenue were equal. now, of course,businessmen do not actually and literally solve the system of simultaneousequations in terms of which the mathematical economist nds it convenienttoexpress this hypothesis, any more than leaves or billiard players explicitly go through complicated mathematical calculations or falling bodies decidetocreate a vacuum. the billiard player, if asked how he decides where to hit the ball, may say that he just gures it out but then also rubs a rabbitsfoot just to make sure; and the businessman may well say that he prices ataverage cost, with of course some minor deviations when the market makes it necessary. the one statement is about as helpful as the other, and neitheris a relevant test of the associated hypothesis. condence in the maximization-of-returns hypothesis is justied by evi- dence of a very different character. this evidence is in part similar to thatadduced on behalf of the billiard-player hypothesis unless the behaviorof businessmen in some way or other approximated behavior consistentwith the maximization of returns, it seems unlikely that they would remain in business for long. let the apparent immediate determinant of businessbehavior be anything at all habitual reaction, random chance, or what-not. whenever this determinant happens to lead to behavior consistent withrational and informed maximization of returns, the business will prosper and acquire resources with which to expand; whenever it does not, thebusiness will tend to lose resources and can be kept in existence only bythe addition of resources from outside. the process of natural selectionthus helps to validate the hypothesis or, rather, given natural selection,acceptance of the hypothesis can be based largely on the judgment that itsummarizes appropriately the conditions for survival. aneven more important body of evidence for the maximization-of- returns hypothesis is experience from countless applications of the hypoth- esis to specic problems and the repeated failure of its implications to becontradicted. this evidence is extremely hard to document; it is scattered in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 159 numerous memorandums, articles, and mo nographs concerned primarily with specic concrete problems rather than with submitting the hypothe- sis to test. y et the continued use and acceptance of the hypothesis over along period, and the failure of any coherent, self-consistent alternative to bedeveloped and be widely accepted, is strong indirect testimony to its worth.the evidence forahypothesis always consists of its repeated failure to be contradicted, continues to accumulate so long as the hypothesis is used, and byits very nature is difcult to document at all comprehensively. it tends to become part of the tradition and folklore of a science revealed in the tenacitywith which hypotheses are held rather than in any textbook list of instances in which the hypothesis has failed to be contradicted. iv . the signicance and role of the assumptions of a theory uptothis point our conclusions about the signicance of the assumptions of a theory have been almost entirely negative: we have seen that a theorycannot be tested by the realism of its assumptions and that the veryconcept of the assumptions of a theory is surrounded with ambiguity. but, if this were all there is to it, it would be hard to explain the extensive use of the concept and the strong tendency that we all have to speak ofthe assumptions of a theory and to compare the assumptions of alternativetheories. there is too much smoke for there to be no re. inmethodology, as in positive science, negative statements can generally be made with greater condence than positive statements, so i have less con-dence in the following remarks on the signicance and role of assumptionsthan in the preceding remarks. so far as i can see, the assumptions of a the-ory play three different, though related, positive roles: ( a)they are often an economical mode of describing or presenting a theory; ( b)they some- times facilitate an indirect test of the hypothesis by its implications; and(c), as already noted, they are sometimes a convenient means of specifying the conditions under which the theory is expected to be valid. the rst tworequire more extensive discussion. a.the use of assumptions in stating a theory the example of the leaves illustrates the rst role of assumptions. instead of saying that leaves seek to maximize the sunlight they receive, we couldstate the equivalent hypothesis, without any apparent assumptions, in theform of a list of rules for predicting the density of leaves: if a tree stands inalevel eld with no other trees or other bodies obstructing the rays of the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 160 milton friedman sun, then the density of leaves will tend to be such and such; if a tree is on the northern slope of a hill in the midst of a forest of similar trees, then ...; etc. this is clearly a far less economical presentation of the hypothesis thanthe statement that leaves seek to maximize the sunlight each receives. thelatter statement is, in effect, a simple summary of the rules in the abovelist, even if the list were indenitely extended, since it indicates both howtodetermine the features of the environment that are important for the particular problem and how to evaluate their effects. it is more compact andat the same time no less comprehensive. moregenerally, a hypothesis or theory consists of an assertion that certain forces are, and by implication others are not, important for a particular classof phenomena and a specication of the manner of action of the forces itasserts to be important. we can regard the hypothesis as consisting of twoparts: rst, a conceptual world or abstract model simpler than the realworld and containing only the forces that the hypothesis asserts to be important; second, a set of rules dening the class of phenomena for whichthe model can be taken to be an adequate representation of the real worldand specifying the correspondence between the variables or entities in themodel and observable phenomena. these two parts are very different in character. the model is abstract and complete; it is an algebra or logic. mathematics and formal logic come into their own in checking its consistency and completeness and exploringits implications. there is no place in the model for, and no function to beserved by, vagueness, maybes, or approximations. the air pressure is zero,not small, for a vacuum; the demand curve for the product of a competitiveproducer is horizontal (has a slope of zero), not almost horizontal. the rules for using the model, on the other hand, cannot possibly be abstract and complete. they must be concrete and in consequence incom-plete completeness is possible only in a conceptual world, not in the realworld, however that may be interpreted. the model is the logical embod- iment of the half-truth, there is nothing new under the sun; the rulesfor applying it cannot neglect the equally signicant half-truth, historynever repeats itself. t o a considerable extent the rules can be formulatedexplicitly most easily, though even then not completely, when the theory is part of an explicit more general theory as in the example of the vacuumtheory for falling bodies. in seeking to mak eascience as objective as pos- sible, our aim should be to formulate the rules explicitly in so far as possibleand continually to widen the range of phenomena for which it is possibletodo so. but, no matter how successful we may be in this attempt, there

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 161 inevitably will remain room for judgment in applying the rules. each occur- rence has some features peculiarly its own, not covered by the explicit rules. the capacity to judge that these are or are not to be disregarded, that theyshould or should not affect what observable phenomena are to be identi-ed with what entities in the model, is something that cannot be taught; itcan be learned but only by experience and exposure in the right scienticatmosphere, not by rote. it is at this point that the amateur is separatedfrom the professional in all sciences and that the thin line is drawn whichdistinguishes the crackpot from the scientist. asimple example may perhaps clarify this point. euclidean geometry is an abstract model, logically complete and consistent. its entities are precisely dened a line is not a geometrical gure much longer than it is wideor deep; it is a gure whose width and depth are zero. it is also obviouslyunrealistic. there are no such things in reality as euclidean points or lines or surfaces. let us apply this abstract model to a mark made on ablackboard by a piece of chalk. is the mark to be identied with a euclideanline, a euclidean surface, or a euclidean solid? clearly, it can appropriately be identied with a line if it is being used to represent, say, a demand curve. butit cannot be so identied if it is being used to color, say, countries on a map,for that would imply that the map would never be colored; for this purpose,the same mark must be identied with a surface. but it cannot be so identiedbyamanufacturer of chalk, for that would imply that no chalk would ever be used up; for his purposes, the same mark must be identied with a volume.inthis simple example these judgments will command general agreement. yetitseems obvious that, while general considerations can be formulated toguide such judgments, they can never be comprehensive and cover every possible instance; they cannot have the self-contained coherent character ofeuclidean geometry itself. inspeaking of the crucial assumptions of a theory, we are, i believe, trying to state the key elements of the abstract model. there are generally many different ways of describing the model completely many differentsets of postulates which both imply and are implied by the model as awhole. these are all logically equiv alent: what are regarded as axioms or postulates of a model from one point of view can be regarded as theoremsfrom another, and conversely. the particular assumptions termed cru-cial are selected on grounds of their convenience in some such respectsas simplicity or economy in describing the model, intuitive plausibility, orcapacity to suggest, if only by implication, some of the considerations thatare relevant in judging or applying the model.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 162 milton friedman b.the use of assumptions as an indirect t est of theory inpresenting any hypothesis, it generally seems obvious which of the series of statements used to expound it refer to assumptions and which toimplications; yet this distinction is not easy to dene rigorously. it is not, i believe, a characteristic of the hypothesis as such but rather of theuse to which the hypothesis is to be put. if this is so, the ease of classify-ing statements must reect unambiguousness in the purpose the hypoth-esis is designed to serve. the possibility of interchanging theorems andaxioms in an abstract model implies the possibility of interchanging impli-cations and assumptions in the substantive hypothesis corresponding tothe abstract model, which is not to say that any implication can be inter-changed with any assumption but only that there may be more than one set of statements that imply the rest. forexample, consider a particular proposition in the theory of oligopolis- tic behavior. if we assume ( a)that entrepreneurs seek to maximize their returns by any means including acquiring or extending monopoly power, this will imply ( b)that, when demand for a product is geographically unstable, transportation costs are signicant, explicit price agreements ille-gal, and the number of producers of the product relatively small, they will tend to establish basing-point pricing systems. 17the assertion ( a)i sr e g arded as an assumption and ( b)asanimplication because we accept the predic- tion of market behavior as the purpose of the analysis. we shall regard theassumption as acceptable if we nd that the conditions specied in ( b)a r e generally associated with basing-point pricing, and conversely. let us nowchange our purpose to deciding what cases to prosecute under the sher- man antitrust laws prohibition of a conspiracy in restraint of trade. ifwe now assume ( c)that basing-point pricing is a deliberate construction to facilitate collusion under the conditions specied in (b),this will imply ( d) that entrepreneurs who participate in basing-point pricing are engaged in aconspiracy in restraint of trade. what was formerly an assumption now becomes an implication, and conversely. we shall now regard the assumption(c)asvalid if we nd that, when entrepreneurs participate in basing-point pricing, there generally tends to be other evidence, in the form of letters,memorandums, or the like, of what courts regard as a conspiracy in restraintof trade. suppose the hypothesis works for the rst purpose, namely, the predic- tion of market behavior. it clearly does not follow that it will work for thesecond purpose, namely, predicting whether there is enough evidence of aconspiracy in restraint of trade to justify court action. and, conversely, if

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 163 it works for the second purpose, it does not follow that it will work for the rst. y et, in the absence of other evidence, the success of the hypothesis forone purpose in explaining one class of phenomena will give us greatercondence than we would otherwise have that it may succeed for another purpose in explaining another class of phenomena. it is much harder tosay how much greater condence it justies. for this depends on how closelyrelated we judge the two classes of phenomena to be, which itself depends in acomplex way on similar kinds of indirect evidence, that is, on our experi- ence in other connections in explaining by single theories phenomena thatare in some sense similarly diverse. tostate the point more generally, what are called the assumptions of a hypothesis can be used to get some indirect evidence on the acceptability of the hypothesis in so far as the assumptions can themselves be regardedas implications of the hypothesis, and hence their conformity with real-ity as a failure of some implications to be contradicted, or in so far as theassumptions may call to mind other implications of the hypothesis suscep-tible to casual empirical observation. 18the reason this evidence is indirect is that the assumptions or associated implications generally refer to a classof phenomena different from the class which the hypothesis is designed toexplain; indeed, as is implied above, this seems to be the chief criterion we use in deciding which statements to term assumptions and which to termimplications. the weight attached to this indirect evidence depends onhow closely related we judge the two classes of phenomena to be. another way in which the assumptions of a hypothesis can facilitate its indirect testing is by bringing out its kinship with other hypotheses andthereby making the evidence on their validity relevant to the validity ofthe hypothesis in question. for example, a hypothesis is formulated for aparticular class of behavior. this hypothesis can, as usual, be stated with-out specifying any assumptions. but suppose it can be shown that it isequivalent to a set of assumptions including the assumption that man seekshis own interest. the hypothesis then gains indirect plausibility from thesuccess for other classes of phenomena of hypotheses that can also be saidtomake this assumption; at least, what is being done here is not completely unprecedented or unsuccessful in all other uses. in effect, the statement ofassumptions so as to bring out a relationship between supercially differenthypotheses is a step in the direction of a more general hypothesis. this kind of indirect evidence from related hypotheses explains in large measure the difference in the condence attached to a particular hypothesisbypeople with different backgrounds. consider, for example, the hypoth- esis that the extent of racial or religious discrimination in employment in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 164 milton friedman aparticular area or industry is closely related to the degree of monopoly in the industry or area in question; that, if the industry is competitive, discrimination will be signicant only if the race or religion of employeesaffects either the willingness of other employees to work with them or theacceptability of the product to customers and will be uncorrelated with theprejudices of employers. 19this hypothesis is far more likely to appeal to an economist than to a sociologist. it can be said to assume single-mindedpursuit of pecuniary self-interest by employers in competitive industries;and this assumption works well in a wide variety of hypotheses in eco-nomics bearing on many of the mass phenomena with which economicsdeals. it is therefore likely to seem reasonable to the economist that it mayworkin this case as well. on the other hand, the hypotheses to which the sociologist is accustomed have a very different kind of model or ideal world,in which singleminded pursuit of pecuniary self-interest plays a much lessimportant role. the indirect evidence available to the sociologist on thishypothesis is much less favorable to it than the indirect evidence available tothe economist; he is therefore likely to view it with greater suspicion. of course, neither the evidence of the economist nor that of the sociolo- gist is conclusive. the decisive test is whether the hypothesis works for the phenomena it purports to explain. but a judgment may be required beforeany satisfactory test of this kind has been made, and, perhaps, when it can-not be made in the near future, in which case, the judgment will have tobased on the inadequate evidence available. in addition, even when such atest can be made, the background of the scientists is not irrelevant to the judgments they reach. there is never certainty in science, and the weight ofevidence for or against a hypothesis can never be assessed completely objec- tively. the economist will be more tolerant than the sociologist in judgingconformity of the implications of the hypothesis with experience, and he will be persuaded to accept the hypothesis tentatively by fewer instances of con formity. v.some implications for economic issues the abstract methodological issues we have been discussing have a directbearing on the perennial criticism of orthodox economic theory as unre-alistic as well as on the attempts that have been made to reformulate theorytomeet this charge. economics is a dismal science because it assumes man to be selsh and money-grubbing, a lightning calculator of pleasuresand pains, who oscillates like a homogeneous globule of desire of happinessunder the impulse of stimuli that shift him about the area, but leave him

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 165 intact;20it rests on outmoded psychology and must be reconstructed in line with each new development in psychology; it assumes men, or at least businessmen, to be in a continuous state of alert, ready to change pricesand or pricing rules whenever their sensitive intuitions ...detect a change in demand and supply conditions; 21it assumes markets to be perfect, com- petition to be pure, and commodities, labor, and capital to be homogeneous. aswehave seen, criticism of this type is largely beside the point unless supplemented by evidence that a hypothesis differing in one or another ofthese respects from the theory being criticiz ed yields better predictions for as wide a range of phenomena. y et most such criticism is not so supplemented; it is based almost entirely on supposedly directly perceived discrepanciesbetween the assumptions and the real world. a particularly clear exam-ple is furnished by the recent criticisms of the maximization-of-returnshypothesis on the grounds that businessmen do not and indeed cannot behave as the theory assumes they do. the evidence cited to support thisassertion is generally taken either from the answers given by businessmentoquestions about the factors affec ting their decisions a procedure for testing economic theories that is about on a par with testing theories of longevity by asking octogenarians how they account for their long life or from descriptive studies of the decision-making activities of individualrms. 22little if any evidence is ever cited on the conformity of business- mens actual market behavior what they do rather than what they say theydo with the implications of the hypothesis being criticized, on the onehand, and an alternative hypothesis, on the other. atheory or its assumptions cannot possibly be thoroughly realistic in the immediate descriptive sense so often assigned to this term. a completelyrealistic theory of the wheat market would have to include not only the conditions directly underlying the supply and demand for wheat but also the kind of coins or credit instruments used to make exchanges; the personalcharacteristics of wheat-traders such as the color of each traders hair and eyes, his antecedents and education, the number of members of his family, their characteristics, antecedents, and education, etc.; the kind of soil onwhich the wheat was grown, its physical and chemical characteristics, theweather prevailing during the growing season; the personal characteristics of the farmers growing the wheat and of the consumers who will ultimatelyuse it; and so on indenitely. any attempt to move very far in achieving thiskind of realism is certain to render a theory utterly useless. of course, the notion of a completely realistic theory is in part a straw man. no critic of a theory would accept this logical extreme as his objective;he would say that the assumptions of the theory being criticized were

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 166 milton friedman too unrealistic and that his objective was a set of assumptions that were more realistic though still not completely and slavishly so. but so long as the test of realism is the directly perceived descriptive accuracy of the assumptions for example, the observation that businessmen do not appear to be either as avaricious or as dynamic or as logical as marginal theoryportrays them 23or that it would be utterly impractical under present conditions for the manager of a multiprocess plant to attempt ...to work out and equate marginal costs and marginal revenues for each productivefactor 24there is no basis for making such a distinction, that is, for stopping short of the straw man depicted in the preceding paragraph. what is thecriterion by which to judge whether a particular departure from realism is oris not acceptable? why is it more unrealistic in analyzing business behaviortoneglect the magnitude of businessmens costs than the color of their eyes? the obvious answer is because the rst makes more difference to businessbehavior than the second; but there is no way of knowing that this is sosimply by observing that businessmen do have costs of different magnitudesand eyes of different color. clearly it can only be known by comparingthe effect on the discrepancy between actual and predicted behavior oftaking the one factor or the other into account. even the most extremeproponents of realistic assumptions are thus necessarily driven to rejecttheir own criterion and to accept the test by prediction when they classifyalternative assumptions as more or less realistic. 25 the basic confusion between descriptive accuracy and analytical relevance that underlies most criticisms of economic theory on the grounds that itsassumptions are unrealistic as well as the plausibility of the views that leadtothis confusion are both strikingly illustrated by a seemingly innocuous remark in an article on business-cycle theory that economic phenomena are varied and complex, so any comprehensive theory of the business cyclethat can apply closely to reality must be very complicated. 26afundamental hypothesis of science is that appearances are deceptive and that there is a way of looking at or interpreting or organizing the evidence that will revealsupercially disconnected and dive rse phenomena to be manifestations of amore fundamental and relatively simple structure. and the test of this hypothesis, as of any other, is its fruits a test that science has so far met with dramatic success. if a class of economic phenomena appears varied and complex, it is, we must suppose, because we have no adequate theorytoexplain them. known facts cannot be set on one side; a theory to apply closely to reality, on the other. a theory is the way we perceive facts, and wecannot perceive facts without a theory. any assertion that economic phenomena arevaried and complex denies the tentative state of knowledge

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 167 that alone makes scientic activity meaningful; it is in a class with john stuart mills justly ridiculed statement that happily, there is nothing in thelaws of value which remains [1848] for the present or any future writer toclear up; the theory of the subject is complete. 27 the confusion between descriptive accuracy and analytical relevance has led not only to criticisms of economic theory on largely irrelevant groundsbut also to misunderstanding of economic theory and misdirection of effortstorepair supposed defects. ideal typ es in the abstract model developed byeconomic theorists have been regarded as strictly descriptive categories intended to correspond directly and fully to entities in the real world inde-pendently of the purpose for which the model is being used. the obviousdiscrepancies have led to necessarily unsuccessful attempts to construct the-ories on the basis of categories intended to be fully descriptive. this tendency is perhaps most clearly illustrated by the interpretation given t othe concepts of perfect competition and monopoly and the development of the theory of mono polistic or imperfe ct competition. marshall, it is said, assumed perfect com petition; perhaps there once was such a thing. but clearly there is no longer, and we must therefore discard histheories. the reader will search long and hard and i predict unsuccessfully tond in marshall any explicit assumption about perfect competition or any assertion that in a descriptive sense the world is composed of atomisticrms engaged in perfect competition. rather, he will nd marshall saying:at one extrem ea r ew o r l dm a r k e ts in which competition acts directly from all parts of the globe; and at the other those secluded markets in which alldirect competition from afar is shut out, though indirect and transmittedcompetition may make itself felt even in these; and about midway between these extremes lie the great majority of the markets which the economist andthe business man have to study. 28marshall took the world as it is; he sought toconstruct an engine to analyze it, not a photographic reproduction of it. inanalyzing the world as it is, marshall constructed the hypothesis that, for many problems, rms could be grouped into industries such that thesimilarities among the rms in each group were more important than thedifferences among them. these are problems in which the important elementis that a group of rms is affected alike by some stimulu sac o m m o nc hange in the demand for their products, say, or in the supply of factors. but thiswill not do for all problems: the important element for these may be the differential effect on particular rms. the abstract model corresponding to this hypothesis contains two ideal types of rms: atomistically competitive rms, grouped into industries, and

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 168 milton friedman monopolistic rms. a rm is competitive if the demand curve for its output is innitely elastic with respect to its ow npricefor some price and all outputs, giventhe prices charged by all other rms; it belongs to an industry dened as a group of rms producing a single product. a product is dened as acollection of units that are perfect substitutes to purchasers so the elasticity of demand for the output of one rm with respect to the price of anotherrm in the same industry is innite for some price and some outputs. a rmis monopolistic if the demand curve for its output is not innitely elastic atsome price for all outputs. 29ifit is a monopolist, the rm is the industry.30 asalways, the hypothesis as a whole consists not only of this abstract model and its ideal types but also of a set of rules, mostly implicit andsuggested by example, for identifying actual rms with one or the other idealtype and for classifying rms into industries. the ideal types are not intended tobe descriptive; they are designed to isolate the features that are crucial for aparticular problem. even if we could estimate directly and accurately the demand curve for a rms product, we could not proceed immediately toclassify the rm as perfectly competitive or monopolistic according as theelasticity of the demand curve is or is not innite. no observed demand curvewill ever be precisely horizontal, so the estimated elasticity will always be nite. the relevant question always is whether the elasticity is sufcientlylarge to be regarded as innite, but this is a question that cannot be answered,once for all, simply in terms of the numerical value of the elasticity itself,any more than we can say, once for all, whether an air pressure of 15 poundsper square inch is sufciently close to zero to use the formula s 1 2gt 2. similarly, we cannot compute cross-elasticities of demand and then classify rms into industries according as there is a substantial gap in the cross-elasticities of demand. as marshall says, the question where the lines ofdivision between different commodities [i.e., industries] should be drawnmust be settled by convenience of the particular discussion. 31everything depends on the problem; there is no inconsistency in regarding the samerm as if it were a perfect competitor for one problem, and a monopolistfor another, just as there is none in regarding the same chalk mark as aeuclidean line for one problem, a euclidean surface for a second, and a euclidean solid for a third. the size of the elasticity and cross-elasticity of demand, the number of rms producing physically similar products, etc.,are all relevant because they are or may be among the variables used todene the correspondence between the ideal and real entities in a particularproblem and to specify the circumstances under which the theory holdssufciently well; but they do not provide, once for all, a classication ofrms as competitive or monopolistic.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 169 anexample may help to clarify this point. suppose the problem is to determine the effect on retail prices of cigarettes of an increase, expected to be permanent, in the federal cigarette tax. i venture to predict that broadlycorrect results will be obtained by treating cigarette rms as if they were pro- ducing an identical product and were in perfect competition. of course, insuch a case, some convention must be made as to the number of chester-eld cigarettes which are taken as equivalent to a marlboro. 32 on the other hand, the hypothesis that cigarette rms would behave as if they were perfectly competitive would have been a false guide to theirreactions to price control in world war ii, and this would doubtless have been recognized before the event. costs of the cigarette rms must haverisen during the war. under such circumstances perfect competitors would have reduced the quantity offered for sale at the previously existing price.but, at that price, the wartime rise in the income of the public presumably increased the quantity demanded. under conditions of perfect competitionstrict adherence to the legal price would therefore imply not only a short-age in the sense that quantity demand ed exceeded quantity supplied but also an absolute decline in the number of cigarettes produced. the factscontradict this particular implication: there was reasonably good adherence tomaximum cigarette prices, yet the quantities produced increased sub- stantially. the common force of increased costs presumably operated lessstrongly than the disruptive force of the desire by each rm to keep its shareof the market, to maintain the value and prestige of its brand name, espe-cially when the excess-prots tax shifted a large share of the costs of thiskind of advertising to the government. for this problem the cigarette rmscannot be treated as if they were perfect competitors. wheat farming is frequently taken to exe mplify perfect competition. y et, while for some problems it is appropriate to treat cigarette producers as ifthey comprised a perfectly competitive industry, for some it is not appro-priate to treat wheat producers as if they did. for example, it may not be ifthe problem is the differential in prices paid by local elevator operators forwheat. marshalls apparatus turned out to be most useful for problems in which agroup of rms is affected by common stimuli, and in which the rms can be treated as if they were perfect competitors. this is the source of the misconception that marshall assumed perfect competition in somedescriptive sense. it would be highly desirable to have a more general theorythan marshalls, one that would cover at the same time both those cases inwhich differentiation of product or fewness of numbers makes an essentialdifference and those in which it does not. such a theory would enable us

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 170 milton friedman tohandle problems we now cannot and, in addition, facilitate determina- tion of the range of circumstances under which the simpler theory can be regarded as a good enough approximation. t o perform this function, the more general theory must have content and substance; it must have implica-tions susceptible to empirical contradiction and of substantive interest andimportance. the theory of imperfect or monop olistic competition developed by chamberlin and robinson is an attempt to construct such a more generaltheory. 33unfortunately, it possesses none of the attributes that would make it a truly useful general theory. its contribution has been limited largelytoimproving the exposition of the economics of the individual rm and thereby the derivation of implications of the marshallian model, reningmarshalls monopoly analysis, and enriching the vocabulary available for describing industrial experience. the deciencies of the theory are revealed most clearly in its treatment of, or inability to treat, problems involving groups of rms marshallianindustries. so long as it is insisted that differentiation of product is essen-tial and it is the distinguishing feature of the theory that it does insist onthis point the denition of an industry in terms of rms producing anidentical product cannot be used. by that denition each rm is a separateindustry. denition in terms of close substitutes or a substantial gapin cross-elasticities evades the issue, introduces fuzziness and undenabletermsinto the abstract model where they have no place, and serves only to make the theory analytically meaningless close and substantial are inthe same category as a small air pressure. 34inone connection chamberlin implicitly denes an industry as a group of rms having identical cost anddemand curves. 35butthis, too, is logically meaningless so long as differ- entiation of product is, as claimed, essential and not to be put aside. whatdoes it mean to say that the cost and demand curves of a rm producingbulldozers are identical with those of a rm producing hairpins? 36and if it is meaningless for bulldozers and hairpins, it is meaningless also for twobrands of toothpaste so long as it is insisted that the difference betweenthe two brands is fundamentally important. the theory of monopolistic competition offers no tools for the analysis of an industry and so no stopping place between the rm at one extreme andgeneral equilibrium at the other. 37it istherefore incompetent to contribute tothe analysis of a host of important problems: the one extreme is too narrow to be of great interest; the other, too broad to permit meaningfulgeneralizations. 38

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 171 vi. conclusion economics as a positive science is a body of tentatively accepted general- izations about economic phenomena that can be used to predict the con-sequences of changes in circumstances. progress in expanding this body ofgeneralizations, strengthening our condence in their validity, and improv-ing the accuracy of the predictions they yield is hindered not only by thelimitations of human ability that impede all search for knowledge but also byobstacles that are especially important for the social sciences in general and economics in particular, though by no means peculiar to them. familiaritywith the subject matter of economics breeds contempt for special knowl- edge about it. the importance of its subject matter to everyday life and tomajor issues of public policy impedes objectivity and promotes confusionbetween scientic analysis and normative judgment. the necessity of relyingon uncontrolled experience rather than on controlled experiment makes itdifcult to produce dramatic and clear-cut evidence to justify the accep-tance of tentative hypotheses. reliance on uncontrolled experience does notaffect the fundmental methodological principle that a hypothesis can betested only by the conformity of its implications or predictions with observ- able phenomena; but it does render the task of testing hypotheses moredifcult and gives greater scope for confusion about the methodologicalprinciples involved. more than other scientists, social scientists need to beself-conscious about their methodology. one confusion that has been particularly rife and has done much damage is confusion about the role of assumptions in economic analysis. a mean-ingful scientic hypothesis or theory typically asserts that certain forcesare, and other forces are not, important in understanding a particular classof phenomena. it is frequently convenient to present such a hypothesis bystating that the phenomena it is desired to predict behave in the world ofobservation as ifthey occurred in a hypothetical and highly simplied world containing only the forces that the hypothesis asserts to be important. in general, there is more than one way to formulate such a description morethan one set of assumptions in terms of which the theory can be presented.the choice among such alternative assumptions is made on the grounds ofthe resulting economy, clarity, and precision in presenting the hypothesis;their capacity to bring indirect evidence to bear on the validity of the hypoth-esis by suggesting some of its implications that can be readily checked withobservation or by bringing out its connection with other hypotheses dealingwith related phenomena; and similar considerations.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 172 milton friedman suchatheory cannot be tested by comparing its assumptions directly with reality. indeed, there is no meaningful way in which this can be done. complete realism is clearly unattainable, and the question whetheratheory is realistic enough can be settled only by seeing whether it yields predictions that are good enough for the purpose in hand or that are betterthan predictions from alternative theories. y et the belief that a theory canbe tested by the realism of its assumptions independently of the accuracy ofits predictions is widespread and the source of much of the perennial criti-cism of economic theory as unrealistic. such criticism is largely irrelevant,and, in consequence, most attempts to reform economic theory that it hasstimulated have been unsuccessful. the irrelevance of so much criticism of economic theory does not of course imply that existing economic theory deserves any high degree of condence. these criticisms may miss the target, yet there may be a target for criticism. in a trivial sense, of course, there obviously is. any theory isnecessarily provisional and subject to change with the advance of knowl-edge. t o go beyond this platitude, it is necessary to be more specic aboutthe content of existing economic theory and to distinguish among itsdifferent branches; some parts of economic theory clearly deserve morecondence than others. a comprehensive evaluation of the present state of positive economics, summary of the evidence bearing on its validity, andassessment of the relative condence that each part deserves is clearly a taskfor a treatise or a set of treatises, if it be possible at all, not for a brief paper onmethodology. about all that is possible here is the cursory expression of a personal view. existing relative price theory, whic hisdesigned to explain the allocation of resources among alternative ends and the division of the product among the co-operating resources and which reached almost its present form inmarshalls principles of economics ,s e e m st o me both extremely fruitful and deserving of much condence for the kind of economic system that charac-terizeswestern nations. despite the appearance of considerable controversy, this is true equally of existing static mo netary theory, which is designed to explain the structural or secular level of absolute prices, aggregate output, and other variables for the economy as a whole and which has had a formof the quantity theory of money as its basic core in all of its major variantsfrom david hume to the cambridge school to irving fisher to john maynardkeynes. the weakest and least satisfactory part of current economic theory seems to me to be in the eld of monetary dynamics, which is concernedwith the process of adaptation of the economy as a whole to changes in con- ditions and so with short-period uct uations in aggregate activity. in this

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 173 eld we do not even have a theory that can appropriately be called the existing theory of monetary dynamics. of course, even in relative price and static monetary theory there is enor- mous room for extending the scope and improving the accuracy of existingtheory. in particular, undue emphasis on the descriptive realism of assump-tions has contributed to neglect of the critical problem of determining thelimits of validity of the various hypotheses that together constitute the exist-ing economic theory in these areas. the abstract models corresponding tothese hypotheses have been elaborated in considerable detail and greatlyimproved in rigor and precision. descriptive material on the characteris-tics of our economic system and its operations have been amassed on anunprecedented scale. this is all to the good. but, if we are to use effectivelythese abstract models and this descriptive material, we must have a com-parable exploration of the criteria for determining what abstract model itis best to use for particular kinds of problems, what entities in the abstractmodel are to be identied with what obse rvable entities, and what features of the problem or of the circumstances have the greatest effect on the accuracyof the predictions yielded by a particular model or theory. progress in positive economics will require not only the testing and elab- oration of existing hypotheses but also the construction of new hypotheses.on this problem there is little to say on a formal level. the construction ofhypotheses is a creative act of inspiration, intuition, invention; its essence is the vision of something new in familiar material. the process must bediscussed in psychological, not logical, categories; studies in autobiogra-phies and biographies, not treatises on scientic method; and promoted bymaxim and example, not syllogism or theorem. notes 1.(london: macmillan co., 1981), pp. 345 and 46. 2.social science or economics is by no means peculiar in this respect witness the importance of personal beliefs and of home remedies in medicine wher-ever obviously convincing evidence for expert opinion is lacking. the current prestige and acceptance of the views of physical scientists in their elds of spe-cialization and, all too often, in other elds as well derives, not from faithalone, but from the evidence of their works, the success of their predictions,and the dramatic achievements from applying their results. when economicsseemed to provide such evidence of its worth, in great britain in the rst halfof the nineteenth century, the prestige and acceptance of scientic economicsrivaled the current prestige of the physical sciences. 3.the interaction between the observer and the process observed that is so promi- nent a feature of the social sciences, besides its more obvious parallel in the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 174 milton friedman physical sciences, has a more subtle counterpart in the indeterminacy principle arising out of the interaction between the process of measurement and the phe-nomena being measured. and both have a counterpart in pure logic in g odels theorem, asserting the impossibility of a comprehensive self-contained logic. itis an open question whether all three can be regarded as different formulationsof an even more general principle. 4.one rather more complex example is stabilization policy. supercially, divergentviews on this question seem to reect differences in objectives; but i believe that this impression is misleading and that at bottom the different views reectprimarily different judgments about the source of uctuations in economicactivity and the effect of alternative countercyclical action. for one major positiveconsideration that accounts for much of the divergence see the effects of a full- employment policy on economic stability: a formal analysis, infra ,pp.117 32. for a summary of the present state of professional views on this questionsee the problem of economic instability, a report of a subcommittee of thecommittee on public issues of the american economic association, american economic review ,xl(september, 1950), 50138. 5.final quoted phrase from alfred marshall, the present position of economics (1885), reprinted in memorials of alfred marshall ,e d . a. c. pigou (london: macmillan co., 1925), p. 164. see also the marshallian demand curve, infra ,pp.567, 901. 6.see lange on price flexibility and employment: a methodological criticism, infra ,pp.2829. 7.the marshallian demand curve, infra ,p .5 7 . 8.the qualication is necessary because the evidence may be internally contra- dictory, so there may be no hypothesis consistent with it. see also lange onprice flexibility and employment, infra ,pp.2823. 9.see lange on price flexibility and employment, infra, passim . 10.see also milton friedman and l. j. savage, the expected-utility hypothesis and the measurability of utility, journal of political economy ,l x( d e c e mber, 1952), 46374, esp. pp. 4657. 11.inrecent years some economists, particularly a group connected with the cowles commission for research in economics at the university of chicago, have placed great emphasis on a division of this step of selecting a hypothesis consistent with known evidence into two substeps: rst, the selection of a class of admis- sible hypotheses from all possible hypotheses (the choice of a model in theirterminology); second, the selection of one hypothesis from this class (the choice of a structure). this subdivision may be heuristically valuable in some kinds ofwork,particularly in promoting a systemat ic use of available statistical evidence and theory. from a methodological point of view, however, it is an entirely arbi-trary subdivision of the process of deciding on a particular hypothesis that is on apar with many other subdivisions that may be convenient for one purpose or another or that may suit the psychological needs of particular investigators. one consequence of this particular subdivision has been to give rise to the so-called identication problem. as noted above, if one hypothesis is consis-tent with available evidence, an innite number are. but while this is true for the class of hypotheses as a whole, it may not be true of the subclass obtained

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 175 in the rst of the above two steps the model. it may be that the evidence to be used to select the nal hypothesis from the subclass can be consistent with atmost one hypothesis in it, in which case the model is said to be identied;otherwise it is said to be unidentied. as is clear from this way of describingthe concept of identication, it is essentially a special case of the more generalproblem of selecting among the alternative hypotheses equally consistent withthe evidence a problem that must be decided by some such arbitrary principleas occams razor. the introduction of two substeps in selecting a hypothesismakes this problem arise at the two corresponding stages and gives it a specialcast. while the class of all hypotheses is always unidentied, the subclass in amodel need not be, so the problem arises of conditions that a model must satisfy to be identied. however useful the two substeps may be in some con-texts, their introduction raises the danger that different criteria will unwittingly be used in making the same kind of choice among alternative hypotheses at twodifferent stages. on the general methodological approach discussed in this footnote see tryvge haavelmo, the probability approach in econometrics, econometrica ,vol. xii (1944), supplement; jacob marschak, economic structure, path, policy,and prediction, american economic review ,xxxvii, (may, 1947), 8184, and statistical inference in economics: an introduction, in t. c. koopmans(ed.), statistic inference in dynamic economic models (new y ork: john wiley sons, 1950); t. c. koopmans, statistical estimation of simultaneous eco- nomic relations, journal of the american statistical association ,x l( d e c e mber, 1945), 44866; gershon cooper, the role of economic theory in economet-ricmodels, journal of farm economics ,xxx (february, 1948), 10116. on the identication problem see koopmans, identication problems in econo-metric model construction, econometrica, xvii (april, 1949), 12544; leonid hurwicz, generalization of the concept of identication, in koopmans (ed.), statistical inference in dynamic economic models . 12.the converse of the proposition does not of course hold: assumptions that are unrealistic (in this sense) do not guarantee a signicant theory. 13.see r. a. lester, shortcomings of marginal analysis for wage-employmentproblems, american economic review ,xxxvi (march, 1946), 6282; fritz machlup, marginal analysis and empirical research, american economic review ,xxxvi (september, 1946), 51954; r. a. lester, marginalism, mini- mumw ages, and labor markets, american economic review ,xxxvii (march, 1947), 13548; fritz machlup, rejoinder to an antimarginalist, american eco- nomic review ,xxxvii (march, 1947), 14854; g. j. stigler, professor lester and the marginalists, american economic review ,xxxvii (march, 1947), 15457; h. m. oliver, jr., marginal theory and business behavior, american economic review ,xxxvii (june, 1947), 37583; r. a. gordon, short-period price deter- mination in theory and practice, american economic review ,xxxviii (june, 1948), 26588. itshould be noted that, along with much material purportedly bearing on the validity of the assumptions of marginal theory, lester does refer to evidenceon the conformity of experience with the implications of the theory, citing thereactions of employment in germany to the papen plan and in the united states

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 176 milton friedman tochanges in minimum-wage legislation as examples of lack of conformity. however,stiglers brief comment is the only one of the other papers that refers tothis evidence. it should be noted that machlups thorough and careful exposi- tion of the logical structure and meaning of marginal analysis is called for by themisunderstandings on this score that mar lesters paper and almost conceal theevidence he presents that is relevant to the key issue he raises. but, in machlups emphasis on the logical structure, he comes perilously close to presenting thetheory as a pure tautology, though it is evident at a number of points that he isaware of this danger and anxious to avoid it. the papers by oliver and gordon are the most extreme in the exclusive concentration on the conformity of thebehavior of businessmen with the assumptions of the theory. 14.this example, and some of the subsequent discussion, though independentin origin, is similar to and in much the same spirit as an example and theapproach in an important paper by armen a. alchian, uncertainty, evolution,and economic theory, journal of political economy ,lviii (june, 1950), 21121. 15.milton friedman and l. j. savage, the utility analysis of choices involving risk, journal of political economy ,lvi (august, 1948), 298. reprinted in ameri- can economic association, readings in price theory (chicago: richard d. irwin, inc., 1952), pp. 5796. 16.itseems better to use the term prots to refer to the difference between actual and expected results, between ex post andex ante receip ts. prots are then a result of uncertainty and, as alchian ( op. cit. ,p.212), following tintner, points out, cannot be deliberately maximized in advance. given uncertainty, individ-uals or rms choose among alternative anticipated probability distributions ofreceipts or incomes. the specic content of a theory of choice among such dis- tribut ions depends on the criteria by which they are supposed to be ranked. one hypothesis supposes them to be ranked by the mathematical expectationof utility corresponding to them (see friedman and savage, the expected-utility hypothesis and the measurability of utility, op. cit. ). a special case of this hypothesis or an alternative to it ranks probability distribution by themathematical expectation of the money receipts corresponding to them. thelatter is perhaps more applicable, and more frequently applied, to rms than to individuals. the term expected returns is intended to be sufciently broad toapply to any of these alternatives. the issues alluded to in this note are not basic to the methodological issues being discussed, and so are largely by-passed in the discussion that follows. 17.see george j. stigler, a theory of delivered price systems, american economic review ,xxxix (december, 1949), 114357. 18.see friedman and savage, the expected-utility hypothesis and the measur- ability of utility, op. cit. ,pp.4667, for another specic example of this kind of indirect test. 19.arigorous statement of this hypothesis would of course have to specify how extent of racial or religious discrimination and degree of monopoly are to be judged. the loose statement in the text is sufcient, however, for presentpurposes. 20.thorstein veblen, why is economics not an evolutionary science? (1898),reprinted in the place of science in modern civilization (new y ork, 1919), p. 73.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 177 21.oliver, op. cit. ,p.381. 22.see h. d. henderson, the signicance of the rate of interest, oxford economic papers,no.1(october, 1938), pp. 113; j. e. meade and p . w. s. andrews, summary of replies to questions on effects of interest rates, oxford economic papers,no.1(october, 1938), pp. 1431; r. f. harrod, price and cost in entrepreneurs policy, oxford economic papers ,no.2(may,1939), pp. 111; and r. j. hall and c. j. hitch, price theory and business behavior, oxford economic papers,no.2(may,1939), pp. 1245; lester, shortcomings of marginal analysis for wage-employment problems, op. cit. ;g o r d o n , op. cit. see fritz machlup, marginal analysis and empirical research, op. cit. ,esp. sec. ii, for detailed criticisms of questionnaire methods. idonot mean to imply that questionnaire studies of businessmens or others motives or beliefs about the forces affec ting their behavior are useless for all purposes in economics. they may be extremely valuable in suggesting leads tofollow in accounting for divergencies between predicted and observed results;that is, in constructing new hypotheses or revising old ones. whatever theirsuggestive value in this respect, they seem to me almost entirely useless as a meansoftesting the validity of economic hypotheses. see my comment on albert g. hartspaper, liquidity and uncertainty, american economic review ,x x x ix (may, 1949), 19899. 23.oliver, op. cit. ,p.382. 24.lester, shortcomings of marginal analysis for wage-employment problems, op. cit. ,p .7 5 . 25.e.g., gordons direct examination of the assumptions leads him to formulate the alternative hypothesis generally favored by the critics of the maximization-of-returns hypothesises follows: there is an irresistible tendency to price on thebasis of average total costs for some normal level of output. this is the yardstick,the short-cut, that businessmen and accountants use, and their aim is more toearn satisfactory prots and play safe than to maximize prots ( op. cit. ,p.275). yetheessentially abandons this hypothesis, or converts it into a tautology, and in the process implicitly accepts the test by prediction when he later remarks:full cost and satisfactory prots may continue to be the objectives even whentotal costs are shaded to meet competition or exceeded to take advantage of a sellers market ( ibid. ,p.284). where here is the irresistible tendency? what kind of evidence could contradict this assertion? 26.sidney s. alexander, issues of business cycle theory raised by mr. hicks, american economic review ,xli (december, 1951), 872. 27.principles of political economy (ashley ed.; longmans, green co., 1929), p. 436. 28.principles ,p.329; see also pp. 35, 100, 341, 347, 375, 546. 29.this ideal type can be divided into two types: the oligopolistic rm, if the demand curve for its output is innitely elastic at some price for some but not all outputs;the monopolistic rm proper, if the demand curve is nowhere innitely elastic(except possibly at an output of zero). 30.forthe oligopolist of the preceding note an industry can be dened as a group of rms producing the same product. 31.principles ,p.100. 32.quoted parts from ibid.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 178 milton friedman 33.e. h. chamberlin, the theory of monopolistic competition (6th ed.; cambridge: harvard university press, 1950); joan robinson, the economics of imperfect competition (london: macmillan co., 1933). 34.see r. l. bishop, elasticities, cross-elasticities, and market relationships, american economic review ,xlii (december, 1952), 779803, for a recent attempt to construct a rigorous classication of market relationships along theselines. despite its ingenuity and sophistication, the result seems to me thoroughlyunsatisfactory. it rests basically on certain numbers being classied as largeor small, yet there is no discussion at all of how to decide whether a particularnumber is large or small, as of course there cannot be on a purely abstract level. 35.op. cit., p.82. 36.there always exists a transformation of quantities that will make either the cost curves or the demand curves identical; this transformation need not, however,be linear, in which case it will involve different-sized units of one product atdifferent levels of output. there does not necessarily exist a transformation thatwill make both pairs of curves identical. 37.see robert trifn, monopolistic competition and general equilibrium theory (cambridge: harvard university press, 1940), esp. pp. 18889. 38.foradetailed critique see george j. stig ler, monopolistic competition in retrospect, in five lectures on economic problems (london: macmillan co., 1949), pp. 1214.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c08 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:42 eight testability and approximation herber tsimon herbert simon (19162001) was born in milwaukee, wisconsin, and received his ph.d. in political science from the university of chicago. he taught at the illi-nois institute of t echnology and at carnegie-mellon university. simon made majorcontributions to a number of different disciplines including political science, psy- chology, philosophy, and economics. he was awarded the nobel prize in economics in 1978. the following short essay was written for a symposium on milton fried-mans methodology that was held at the 1962 meetings of the american economicassociation. ind methodological inquiry interesting and instructive to the extent to which it addresses itself to concrete problems of empirical science. thus,while i nd myself in general agreement with almost everything that hasbeen said in the previous papers and by discussants, i should like to pitchmyremarks at a level less abstract than theirs. the relation of premises and conclusions in economic theory professor nagel has pointed out that whether a particular proposition is a fundamental assumption of a theory or one of its derived conclusions isrelative to the formulation of the theory. if this were the whole story, then asymmetry between assumptions and derivations in friedmans position what professor samuelson called the f-twist, and what i like to think of asfriedmans principle of unreality would be entirely arbitrary. professor krupps remarks on composition laws and the relation of microscopic to macroscopic theories suggest, however, that something more is at issue. originally published as problems of methodology discussion, by herbert simon, in theamerican economic review: papers and proceedings ,vol. 53(1963): 22931. reprinted by permission of the american economic association. 179

p1: jzp 9780521883504c08 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:42 180 herbert simon since the prexes micro and macro have rather special meanings in economics, let me talk instead of theories of economic actors and theories ofeconomic markets, respectively. in the present context, the relevant theoryat the actor level can be approximated by the propositions: xbusinessmen desire to maximize prots; ybusinessmen can and do make the calcula- tions that identify the prot-maximizing course of action. the theory at themarket level may be summed up as: zpricesand quantities are observed at those levels which maximize the prots of the rms in the market. (forsimplicity, let us assume that we mean the maximum of perfect competitiontheory.) defending the theory consisting of x, y ,and z,friedman asserts that it doesnt matter if xand yare false, provided zis true. professors nagel and samuelson have already exposed the logical fallacy in using the validityofzto su pport xand y,o rt os u p p o r tc o n s e q u e n c e so f xand ythat do not follow from zalone. but there are other equally serious difculties in friedmans position. xand yare taken as premises and zas a conclusion is not just a matter of taste in formulation of the theory. the formulation ts our common, ifimplicit, notions of explanation. we explain the macroscopic by the micro-scopic (plus some composition laws) the market by the actors. we do thispartly because it satises our feeling that individual actors are the simplecomponents of the complex market; hence proper explanatory elements. we do it partly because xand y,plus the composition laws, allow us to derive other propositions at the market level say, about shifting of taxes, or otherpolicy matters which we are not able to test by direct observation. the logical fallacy in friedmans principle of unreality has exerted so muchfascination both in this session and elsewhere that attention has been distracted from its other errors. most critics have accepted friedmansassumption that proposition zis the empirically tested one, while xand yare not directly observable. this, of course, is nonsense. no one has, in fact, observed whether the actual positions of business rms are theprot-maximizing ones; nor has anyone proposed a method of testing thisproposition by direct observation. i cannot imagine what such a test wouldbe, since the tester would be as incapable as business rms are of discoveringwhat the optimal position actually is. if,under these circumstances, zis a valid theory, it must be because it follows from empirically valid assumptions about actors together withempirically valid composition laws. now we do have a considerable body ofevidence about xand y,and the vast weight of evidence with respect to y, at least, is that it is false. the expressed purpose of friedmans principle of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c08 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:42 testability and approximation 181 unreality is to save classical theory in the face of the patent invalidity of y. (the alchian survival argument that only prot-maximizers survive, does not help matters, since it, like z,cannot be tested by direct observation we cannot identify the prot-maximizers.) the remedy for the difculty is straightforward, although it may involve more empirical work at the level of the individual actors than mostconventionally-trained economists nd comfortable. let us make the obser- vations necessary to discover and test true propositions, call them x primeandy prime, toreplace the false xand y.t h e nl e tu sc o nstruct a new market theory on these rmer foundations. this is not, of course, a novel proposal. the lasttwo decades have seen it carried a long distance toward execution. ideal types and approximations mynal comment is related to the previous one. there has been much talk at this session of ideal types: perfect v acuums and perfect competition. i am not satised with the answers to friedmans argument that he has asmuchrightasthe physicists to make unreal assumptions. was galileo also guilty of using the invalid principle of unreality? i think not. i think he wasinterested in behavior in perfect vacuums not because there arent any in thereal world, but because the real world sometimes sufciently approximates them to make their postulation interesting. letmepropose a methodological principle to replace the principle of unreality. i should like to call it the principle of continuity of approxima-tion. it asserts: if the conditions of the real world approximate sufcientlywell the assumptions of an ideal type, the derivations from these assump- tions will be approximately correct. failure to incorporate this principle intohis formulation seems to me a major weakness in the interesting approachof professor papandreous paper. unreality of premises is not a virtue inscientic theory; it is a necessary evil a concession to the nite computingcapacity of the scientist that is made tolerable by the principle of continuityof approximation. working scientists employ the principle of continuity all the time. unfor- tunately, it has no place in modern statistical theory. the word signicanthas been appropriated by the statisticians to mean unlikely to have arisenbychance. now, in testing extreme hypotheses ideal types we do not primarily want to know whether there are deviations of observation fromtheory which are signicant in this sense. it is far more important to knowwhether they are signicant in the sense that the approximation of theorytoreality is beyond the limits of our tolerance. until this latter notion of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c08 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:42 182 herbert simon signicance has been properly formalized and incorporated in statistical methodology, we are not going to accord proper methodological treatmenttoextreme hypotheses. the discussion at this session has not provided the solution, but it has identied this problem as one of central methodologicalimportance for economics.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c09 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:25 nine why loo ku n der the hood? daniel m. hausman daniel m. hausman (1947 ) is professor of philosophy at the university of wisconsinmadison. he received his ph.d. from columbia university, and he writes mainly on issues of economic methodology and the theory of causality. methodologists have had few kind words for milton friedmans the methodology of positive economics [1953, chapter 7 in this volume], yet its inuence persists. why? one answer is that methodologists have missedan important argument, which economists have found persuasive. unlikehirsch and de marchi (1990), i am concerned here with the argument, not with what friedman really meant. friedman declares, the ultimate goal of a positive science is the devel- opment of a theory or hypothesis that yields valid and meaningful (i.e.,not truistic) predictions about phenomena not yet observed (p. 7). thisis the central thesis of instrumentalism. but from a standard instrumen-talist perspective, in which allthe observable consequences of a theory are signicant, it is impossible to defend friedmans central claim that the real-ism of assumptions is irrelevant to the assessment of a scientic theory. forthe assumptions of economics are testable, and a standard instrumental-ist would not dismiss apparent disconrmations. indeed, the distinctionbetween assumptions and implications is supercial. the survey resultsreported by richard lester and others, which friedman nds irrelevant and wrong-headed (pp. 15, 31f), are as much predictions of neoclassical theory as are claims about market phenomena. iwould like to thank john dreher, merton finkler, daniel hammond, erkki koskela, michael mcpherson, and herbert simon for useful criticisms and suggestions. reprinted by permission of cambridge university press from essays on philosophy and economic methodology bydaniel m. hausman. cambridge: cambridge university press, 1992, pp. 703. 183

p1: jzp 9780521883504c09 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:25 184 daniel m. hausman but, like lawrence boland (1979), i contend that friedman is notastan- dard instrumentalist. consider the following passages: viewed as a body of substantive hypotheses, theory is to be judged by its predictive power for the class of phenomena which it is intended to explain. (pp. 89) forthis test [of predictions] to be relevant, the deduced facts must be about the class of phenomena the hypothesis is designed to explain; (pp. 1213)the decisive test is whether the hypothesis works for the phenomena it purports to explain. (p. 30) 1 friedman rejects astandard instrumentalist concern with allthe predic- tions of a theory. a good tool need not be an all-purpose tool. friedman holds that the goal of economics is narrow predictive success correctprediction only for the class of phenomena the hypothesis is designed toexplain. lesters surveys are irrelevant because their results are not among the phenomena that the theory of the rm was designed to explain. onjust these grounds, many economists dismiss any inquiry into whether theclaims of the theory of consumer choice are true of individuals. isuggest that friedman uses this view that science aims at narrow pre- dictive success as a premise in the following implicit argument: (1) a good hypothesis provides valid and meaningful predictions con- cerning the class of phenomena it is intended to explain. (premise) (2) the only test of whether an hypothesis is a good hypothesis is whether it provides valid and meaningful predictions concerning the class ofphenomena it is intended to explain. 2(invalidly from 1) (3) any other facts about an hypothesis, including whether its assump- tions are realistic, are irrelevant to its scientic assessment. (triviallyfrom 2) if(1) the criterion of a good theory is narrow predictive success, then surely (2) the test of a good theory is narrow predictive success, and friedmansclaim that the realism of assumptions is irrelevant follows trivially. this is atempting and persuasive argument. butitisfallacious. (2) is not true and does not follow from (1). t o see why, consider the following analogous argument: (1 prime)agood used car drives safely, economically, and comfortably. (over- simplied premise) (2 prime)t h e o n ly test of whether a used car is a good used car is whether it drives safely, economically, and comfortably. (invalidly from 1 prime)

p1: jzp 9780521883504c09 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:25 why look under the hood? 185 (3 prime)anything one discovers by opening the hood and checking the sepa- ratecomponents of a used car is irrelevant to its assessment. (trivially from 2 prime) presumably nobody believes 3.3what is wrong with the argument? it assumes that a road test is a conclusive test of a cars future performance. ifthis assumption were true, if it were possible (and cheap) to do a total check of the performance of a used car for the whole of its future, then there would indeed be no point in looking under the hood. for we would know everything about its performance, which is all we care about. but a road test only provides a small sample of this performance. thus a mechanic who examines the engine can provide relevant and useful information. themechanics input is particularly important when one wants to use the carunder new circumstances and when the car breaks down. obviously onewants a sensible mechanic who notes not just that the components are usedand imperfect, but who can judge how well the components are likely toserve their separate purposes. similarly, given friedmans view of the goal of science, there would be no point in examining the assumptions of a theory if it were possible to do atotal assessment of its performance with respect to the phenomena it was designed to explain. but one cannot make such an assessment. indeed, thepoint of a theory is to guide us in circumstances where we do not alreadyknow whether the predictions are correct. 4there is thus much that may be learned by examining the components (assumptions) of a theory and itsirrelevant predictions. such consideration of the realism of assumptionsis particularly important when extending the theory to new circumstancesor when revising it in the face of predictive failure. 5again what is relevant is not whether the assumptions are perfectly true, but whether they areadequate approximations and whether their falsehood is likely to matter forparticular purposes. saying this is not conceding friedmans case. wide,not narrow predictive success constitutes the grounds for judging whether atheorys assumptions are adequate approximations. the fact that a computerprogram works in a few instances does not render study of its algorithm andcode superuous or irrelevant. there is a grain of truth in friedmans defense of theories containing unre- alistic assumptions. for some failures of assumptions may be irrelevant. just as a malfunctioning air-conditioner is insignicant to a cars performancein alaska, so is the falsity of the assumption of innite divisibility unimpor-tant in hypotheses concerning markets for basic grains. given friedmans

p1: jzp 9780521883504c09 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:25 186 daniel m. hausman narrow view of the goals of science (which i am conceding for the purposes of argument, but would otherwise contest), the realism of assumptions maythus sometimes be irrelevant. but this bit of practical wisdom does not sup-port friedmans strong conclusion that only narrow predictive success isrelevant to the assessment of an hypothesis. one should note three qualications. first, we sometimes have a wealth of information concerning the track record of both theories and of used cars.imayknow that my friends old mustang has been running without trouble for the past seven years. the more information we have about performance,the less important is separate examination of components. but it remainssensible to assess assumptions or components, particularly in circumstancesof breakdown and when considering a new use. second, intellectual tools,unlike mechanical tools, do not wear out. but if one has not yet graspedthe fundamental laws governing a subject matter and does not fully knowthe scope of the laws and the boundary conditions on their validity, thengeneralizations are as likely to break down as are physical implements. third(as erkki koskela reminded me), it is easier to interpret a road test than aneconometric study. the difculties of testing in economics make it all themore mandatory to look under the hood. when either theories or used cars work, it makes sense to use them although caution is in order if their parts have not been examined or appeartobe faulty. but known performance in some sample of their given tasks is not the only information relevant to an accurate assessment of either.economists must (and do) look under the hoods of their theoretical vehicles.when they nd embarrassing things there, they must not avert their eyes and claim that what they have found cannot matter. even if all one cares about is predictive success in some limited domain, one should still be concerned aboutthe realism of the assumptions of an hypothesis and the truth of its irrelevantor unimportant predictions. notes 1.see also [friedman (1953)], pp. 15, 20, and 41. 2.notice that (2) does not say that the only test of a hypothesis is whether its predictions are valid. it says that the only test is the validity of only some of its predictions, namely those concerning the class of phenomena the hypothesisis intended to explain. this is overstated, and (i repeat) i am not concerned toprovide the best interpretation of f riedmans whole methodology. in his essay friedman concedes a role for assumptions in facilitating an indirect test of a theory: y et, in the absence of other evidence, the success of the hypothesis for onepurpose in explaining one class of phenomena will give us greater condence

p1: jzp 9780521883504c09 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:25 why look under the hood? 187 than we would otherwise have that it may succeed for another purpose in explaining another class of phenomena. it is much harder to say how much greater condence it justies. for this depends on how closely related we judge the two classes of phenomena to be (p. 28). the last sentence still limits the relevanceof the correctness of predictions concerning phenomena that are remote fromthose that the theory is designed to explain, and friedman clearly believes thatthe evidential force of indirect tests is much less than that of tests concerning therange of phenomena that the theory is intended to explain. daniel hammond (unpublished) has argued that these qualications were not part of the originaldraft of the essay. 3.those who do should get in touch. ive got some ne old cars for you at bargainprices. 4.friedman partially recognizes this point when he writes (according to hammond, echoing criticisms george stigler and arthur burns offered of an earlier draft),the decisive test is whether the hypothesis works for the phenomena it purports toexplain. but a judgment may be required before any satisfactory test of this kind has been made, and, perhaps, when it cannot be made in the near future,in which case, the judgment will have to be based on the inadequate evidenceavailable (1953, p. 30). 5.with what seems to me inconsistent good sense, friedman again partly recognizes the point, i do not mean to imply that questionnaire studies of businessmensor others motives or beliefs about the forces affecting their behavior are uselessfor all purposes in economics. they may be extremely valuable in suggestingleads to follow in accounting for divergences between predicted and observedresults; that is, in constructing new hypotheses or revising old ones. whatever their suggestive value in this respect, they seem to me almost entirely useless asameans of testing the validity of economic hypotheses (1953, p. 31n).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 ten popper and lakatos in economic methodology1 d.wade hands d.wade hands (1951 ) was educated at the university of houston and then indiana university and has taught at the university of puget sound since 1980. he is one of the leading gures in contemporary economic methodology. hands was presidentof the history of science society in 20052006 and is currently the editor of the journal of economic methodology .his most important book, reection without rules , wonthe spengler book prize from the history of economic society in 2004. this essay provides a brief introduction to the ideas of karl popper and imre lakatosand to the issues that arise in applying them to the philosophical understanding ofeconomics. overview the purpose of this chapter is to cri tically reappraise the methodological advice offered to economists by popperian philosophy, in particular pop-perian falsicationism and lakatoss methodology of scientic researchprogrammes . these two philosophical positions and the difculties theyraise for economic methodology are carefully considered in the chapter. it is argued that while economists have beneted from the inuence of poppe-rian philosophy in a number of ways, neither falsicationism nor lakatoss methodology provide an appropriate guide to the acceptance or rejection of economic theories. the implications and caveats surrounding this argumentare considered in the conclusion. pages 6175 of rationality, institutions and economic methodology ,edited by uskali m aki, bo gustafsson, and christian knudsen. london: routledge. copyright c circlecopyrt1993 by uskali m aki, bo gustafsson and christian knudsen. reproduced by permission of taylor and francisbooks uk. 188

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 189 introduction popperian philosophy of science has been extremely inuential in economic methodology. popperian falsicationism , rst introduced into economics byhutchison ( 1938 ), remains one of the dominant approaches to economic methodology. in addition to this direc tinuence, popperian philosophy has also affected economic methodology through the work of imre lakatos. afairly extensive literature has developed around the question of the applica-bility of lakatoss methodology of scientic research programmes (msrp)toeconomics. 2 the purpose of this chapter is to cri tically reappraise the methodological advice given by popperian philosophy. in this reappraisal both popperianfalsicationism and lakatoss msrp will be examined. neo-institutionalisteconomics will not be explicitly discussed; instead the focus will be thegeneral standards for economic theory choice which inuence every eco-nomic theory (including neo-institutionalism). throughout the discussionthe philsophical positions will be appraised only with respect to economic methodology :economic in that only economics and not other elds of enquiry will be discussed, and method ology in that only questions of the- ory choice and theory appraisal (not more general philosophical considera-tions) will be examined. in particular, questions such as whether economicmethodology should be pursued at all (recently raised by mccloskey ( 1985 )) will not be examined here. falsicationism nodoubt karl popper is best known for his falsicationist approach to the philosophy of science: a theory rst presented in logikderforschung in 1934 (english translation, popper 1959 ). falsicationism represents pop- pers view of the growth of scientic knowledge as well as his solution to(or dissolution of) the problem of induction. it is for falsicationism thatpopper claims responsibility for the death of logical positivism (popper 1976b :88). popperian falsicationism is actually composed of two separate theses: one on demarcation (demarcating science from non-science) and one onmethodology (how science should be pr actised). the demarcation thesis is that for a theory to be scientic it must be at least potentially falsiable byempirical observation, that is, there must exist at least one empirical basicstatement which is in conict with the theory. 3this potential falsiability

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 190 d.wade hands is a logical relationship between the theory and a basic statement; in par- ticular, the demarcation criterion only requires that it be logically possibletofalsify the theory, not that such a falsication has ever been attempted. 4 while poppers demarcation criterion has been the subject of an exten- sive debate in the philosophical literature, demarcation is seldom the issuein economics. for economists the more important issue is methodology(choosing between among theories not merely labelling them scientic orunscientic) and popperian methodology requires the practical (not just logical) falsiability of scientic theories. inanutshell, falsicationist scientic practice proceeds as follows. the scientist starts with a scientic problem situation (something requiring ascientic explanation) and proposes a bold conjecture which might offer asolution to the problem. next the conjecture is severely tested by comparingits least likely consequences with the relevant empirical data. poppers argu-ment for severe testing is that a test will be more severe the more prima facie unlikely the consequence that is being tested; the theory should be forced to stick its neck out , to offer the enemy, namely nature, the most exposed and extended surf ace (gellner 1974 :171). the nal step in the falsicationist game depends on how the theory has performed during the testing stage. ifthe implications of the theory are not consistent with the evidence, then theconjecture is falsied and it should be replaced by a new conjecture which is not ad hoc relative to the original, that is, the new conjecture should not be contrived solely to avoid this empirical anomaly. 5ifthe theory is not falsied bythe evidence then it is considered corroborated and it is accepted pro- visionally. given poppers fallibilism this acceptance is provisional forever; the method does not necessarily result in true theories, only ones that havefaced a tough empirical opponent and won. nowwhile there are a number of reasons why economists have felt that popperian falsicationism would be a desirable methodology, the fact is that falsicationism is seldom if ever practised in economics .this seems to be the one point generally agreed upon by recent methodological commentators.infact, this (empirical) claim is supported at length by the case studies in blaug ( 1980 ), a book which consistently advocates falsicationism as a normative ideal. the disagreement between critics and defenders of falsi-cationism is not whether it has been practised ,basically it has not, but rather whether it should be practised .the real questions are whether the profession should try harder to practise falsicationism though it has failed to doso in the past, and the related question of whether the discipline of eco-nomics would be substantially improved by a conscientious falsicationistpractice.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 191 one approach to the question of the appropriateness of falsicationism in economics would be to directly address the question of the adequacy of poppers falsicationist methodology as a general approach to the growth of scientic knowledge; this is not the approach that will be followed here.rather than delving into this general question, the following discussion willsimply survey some of the criticisms which falsicationism has receivedexplicitly as an economic methodology. this list of criticisms is not exhaus- tive, but it does capture the major concerns which have been raised regard-ing the falsicationism in economics. the list is not necessarily in order ofimportance. 6 1. for a number of reasons, the so-called duhemian problem (or duhem quine problem) presents a great difculty in economics.7first, the complexity of human behaviour requires the use of numerous ini- tial conditions and strong simplifying assumptions. some of theserestrictions may actually be false (such as the innite divisibility of commodities), some of these assumptions may be logically unfalsi- able (such as the assumptions of eventually diminishing returns),while still others may be log ically falsiable but practically unfalsi- able (such as the completeness assumption in consumer choice theory).even wh ere assumptions and restrictions can be tested, such testing is verydifcult because of the absence of a suitably controlled laboratory environment. 8inthe presence of such a variety of restrictions it is vir- tually impossible to aim the arrow of modus tollens atone particular problematic element of the set auxiliary hypotheses when contrary evi-dence is found. second, there are many questions and disagreementsabout the empirical basis in economics. it is always possible to arguethat what was observed was not really involuntary unemployment ornot really economic prot, etc. although it is fundamental to pop- perian philosophy that the empirical basis need not be incorrigible,it is necessary that there be a generally accepted convention regard-ing the empirical basis, 9and in economics even such conventions are often not available. third, even if these rst two problems have some-how been eliminated it is still possible for the social sciences to havefeedback effects that do not exist in the physical sciences. the test ofan economic theory may itself alter the initial conditions for the test.conducting a test of the relationship between the money supply and the price level may alter expectations in such a way that the initialconditions (which were true initially) are not true after the test (or if the same test were conducted again).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 192 d.wade hands 2. related to, but actually separate from the duhemian problem, is the problem that the qualitative comparative statics technique used in eco- nomics makes severe testing very difcult and cheap corroborationalsuccess too easy . in economics it is very often the case that the strongestavailable prediction is a qualitative co mparative statics result which only species that the variable in question increases, decreases, orremains the same. since having the correct sign is much easier than having both the correct sign and magnitude, an emphasis on suchqualitative prediction generates theories which are low in empiricalcontent, have few potential falsiers, and are difcult if not impos- sible to test severely. the result is often economic theories which areconrmed by the evidence but provide very little information. 10 3. poppers admitted failure ( 1983 :xxxv) to develop an adequate theory of verisimilitude11presents a fundamental difculty for a falsication- ist methodology in economics. poppers theory of verisimilitude devel-oped as an attempt to reconcile his falsicationist methodology withscientic realism. for a realist science aims at true theories; accordingtofalsicationism, scientic theories should be chosen if they have been corroborated by passing severe tests. if the falsicationist method is to full the realist aims of science it should be demonstrated that morecorroborated theories are closer to the truth. such a demonstration was precisely the goal of poppers theory of verisimilitude. actually a satisfactory theory of verisimilitude would serve popperian philosophyin at least two different ways. one way, as already mentioned, wouldbe to provide an epistemic justication for playing the game of sciencebyfalsicationist rules. such a justication is very important for pop- perian philosophy since without a theory of verisimilitude it can beargued that there are philosophically no good reasons (popper 1972 : 22) for choosing theories as popper recommends. the second functionof a theory of verisimilitude is more practical. verisimilitude wouldprovide rules for choosing the best theory in troublesome cases: likethe situation where both available theories have been falsied. a theoryof verisimilitude would help in such cases because it would providearule for determining which of the two theories in question actually has more verisimilitude: which is closer to the truth. a similar argu-ment could be made for cases involving a choice between a falsiedbut bold theory and a corroborated but modest theory; having a waytodetermine which has more verisimilitude would allow us to choose atheory which is more consistent with the aims of science, which is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 193 closer to the truth. this second, mo repractical, function of the theory of verisimilitude is very important in economic methodology. the rea- son is that economists are almost always faced with choosing betweentwo falsied theories, or choosing between a bold falsied theory andamore modest corroborated one. if poppers theory of verisimilitude had been a success and it could be added to the norms of simple fal-sicationism (both to justify the norms and to help in making thepractical decisions of theory choice) then falsicationism might havean important role to play in economic theory choice. without such alink between severe testing and truth-likeness, the method is of limitedvalue in pursuing the realist aim of science. 4. poppers rules for progressive theory development (non ad hocness ) are seldom appropriate in economics. popper argues that if one theoryis to constitute progress over a predecessor the new theory must beindependently testable; it must have excess empirical content , pre-dict novel facts . 12this issue will be examined more carefully in the lakatos section which follows, but for now it should be noted thatwhile popperian progress may sometimes be of interest to economists,often progress in economics is (and should be) very different to whatpopper prescribes. economists are often concerned with nding new explanations for well-known (non novel) facts, or alternatively, with explaining known phenomena by means of fewer theoretical restric- tions. what constitutes progress in economic theory (or what shouldconstitute progress) is a complex and ongoing question, but it is appar- ent that any suitable answer will require a different, and possibly muchmore liberal, set of standards than those offered by strict popperianfalsicationism. all of these criticisms add up to a negative appraisal of falsicationist eco-nomic methodology. despite the fact that preaching falsicationist method-ology has been very popular among economists, the method fails to provideareasonably adequate set of rules for do ing economics. strict adherence to falsicationist norms would virtually destroy all existing economic theory and leave economists with a rule book for a game unlike anything the professionhas played in the past. this high cost would be paid without any guaranteethat obeying the new rules would result in theories any closer to the truthabout economic behaviour than those currently available. how this resultshould be interpreted will be discussed in the conclusion, for now let us turntolakatoss msrp.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 194 d.wade hands lakatoss methodology of scientic research programmes lakatoss work in the philosophy of science rst appeared in the early 1970s (lakatos 1970 ,1971 )and it was endorsed almost immediately by a number of economists. numerous papers on lakatos have appeared in the economicsliterature, many as a result of the nafplion colloquium on research pro-grammes in physics and economics in 1974 (latsis 1976a ). this literature on lakatos and economics has basically been of two types. the rst typeis historical, it attempts to reconstruct some particular episode in the his-toryof economic thought along lakatosian lines. the second type is more philosophical, it attempts to appraise lakatoss methodology of scienticresearch programmes as an economic methodology and or compare it to other philosophies such as kuhn or popperian falsicationism. lakatoss msrp is clearly part of the popperian tradition in the philosophy of science but it was also motivated by philosophically minded historians ofscience such as kuhn ( 1970 ). for lakatos the primary unit of appraisal in sci- ence is the research programme rather than the scientic theory. a researchprogramme is an ensemble consisting of a hard core, the positive and neg-ative heuristics, and a protective belt. 13the hard core is composed of the fundamental metaphysical presuppositions of the programme; it denes theprogramme, and its elements are treated as irrefutable by the programmespractitioners. t o participate in the programme is to accept and be guided bythe programmes hard core. for example, in weintraubs lakatosian recon-struction of the neo-walrasian research programme in economics, the hardcoreconsists of propositions such as: agents have preferences over outcomes and agents act independently and optimize subject to constraints. the pos-itive and negative heuristics provide instructions about what should andshould not be pursued in the development of the programme. the positiveheuristic guides the researcher toward the right questions and the best toolstouse in answering those questions; the negative heuristic indicates what questions should not be pursued and what tools are inappropriate. againusing weintraubs analysis of the neo-walrasian programme as an example,the positive heuristic contains injunctions such as: construct theories wherethe agents optimize, while the negative heuristic implores researchers toavoid theories involving disequilibrium. finally, the protective belt consists of the programmes actual theories, auxiliary hypotheses, empirical con-ventions and the (evolving) body of the research programme. the major activity of the programme occurs in the protective belt, it occurs as a resultof the interaction of the hard core, the heuristics, and the programmes

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 195 empirical record. for weintraubs neo-walrasian programme the protec- tive belt includes almost all of applied microeconomics. aresearch programme is appraised on the basis of the theoretical and empirical activity in the protective belt. there is theoretical progress if each change in the protective belt is empirical content increasing; that is if it predicts novel facts .14the research programme exhibits empirical progress if this excess empirical content actually gets corroborated (lakatos 1970 : 118). lakatos also requires a third type of progress, heuristic progress (non-ad hoc 3ness), which species that the changes be consistent with the hard coreof the programme. lakatoss denitions of theoretical and empirical progress presuppose that the changes in question are consistent with heuris-tic progress. one obvious example of the link between lakatos and popper is the way in which lakatos characterizes empirical content and novel facts. lakatos,like popper, denes the empirical content of a theory to be the set of itspotential falsiers: the set of those o bservational propositions which may disprove it (lakatos 1970 :98, n. 2). thus, even though lakatos considers empirical progress to come through empirical corroboration rather thanfalsication, his characterization of the relationship between theory andfact is still basically falsicationist. there are many other signs of lakatosspopperian lineage but his denition of empirical content and novel facts are the most important in the appraisal of lakatosian economic method-ology. on the other hand, there are many aspects of the msrp which are fun- damentally at odds with popperian falsicationism. the most signicant ofthese is the immunity of the hard core to empirical criticism; immunizingany part of scientic theory would be in conict with poppers falsica-tionist method of bold conjecture and severe test. popper clearly recognizedthat science has experienced periods of kuhnian normal science wherethe critical spirit seems to be temporarily arrested, but for popper theseepisodes are something to lament not praise (popper 1970 ). another point of disagreement is the question of corroboration versus falsication. whilelakatos denes empirical content in a thoroughly popperian way, he hasno respect for the role of falsication in science. for lakatos all theories are born ref uted ( 1970 :1201) and the task of philosophy of science should be to develop a methodology which starts from this fact. for lakatos progress comes from the corroboration not falsicat ion of novel facts. finally, lakatos clearly embraces a historical meta-metho dology whereby the actual history of science is used to appraise various methodological proposals. 15this is verydifferent from popper where methodology is purely a normative affair

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 196 d.wade hands and where there is no pathway open for the actual history of science to help evaluate methodologies. these places where lakatos differs from popper are exactly the places where lakatos is likely to win the favour of economists since these hap-pen to be areas where there is substantial tension between falsicationismand the actual practice of economics. certainly economics is replete withmetaphysical hard cores; there is not much consensus on what these hardcorepropositions should be, but there seems to be a consensus that such hard corepresuppositions exist and that they often dene alternative research programmes in economics. a philosophical programme such as popperianfalsicationism which requires practitioners to be willing to give up almostany part of their research programme at any time will not provide asadequate a guide for economists as lakatoss methodology which allowsfor such pervasive hard cores. this economic preference for lakatos overpopper also extends to the issue of corroboration versus falsication. it is clear that falsicationism has not been practised in economics and there isgood reason to believe that enforcement of such strict standards would allbut eliminate the discipline as it currently exists. on the other hand, there is agreat amount of empirical activity in economics, the facts do matter, but they matter in a much more subtle and complex way than falsicationismallows. finally, economists would prefer lakatos to popper on the question of the role of the history of science in supporting particular methodologicalproposals. the general question of the relationship between the history ofscience and the philosophy of science is an unsettled question which contin-ues to be debated in the literature, but economists have recently been verysympathetic to methodological proposals that are sensitive to the actual his- toryof their discipline. economists have produced an extensive literature using the lakatosian categories to reconstruct various parts of the history ofeconomic thought. most of this literature focuses on a particular researchprogramme in economic theory (past or present) and tries to isolate thehard core, the positive and negative heuristics, and the type of theoreticalactivity occurring in the protective belt. such work usually results in a pos-itive or negative lakatosian appraisal of the progressivity of the particulareconomic research programme. examples of these reconstructions rangewidely over various topics in the history of economic thought. anoverall assessment of this lakatosian historical literature is very dif- cult because many of the economists writing in the eld have taken very littlecare in the way they use the lakatosian terminology. this lack of delity tolakatosian terminology has resulted in hard cores , heuristics and (particu-larly) novel facts which bear little resemblance to their lakatosian analogues

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 197 or how these terms have been used in reconstructions in the physical sciences. muchof this literature has provided valuable and independently interesting history of economic thought, but it sheds little light on the methodologicaladequacy of the msrp. the only general conclusion that can be reachedfrom this historical literature is that in the case studies where the relevant language is consistent with lakatos, progress, and the prediction of novel factsit necessarily implies, has been a rare occurrence .t h e r e have been some well- researched cases where novel facts actually seem to have been uncovered; 16 but these cases correspond to only a very small portion of what the economicsprofession would consider its major theoretical advances . lakatoss crite-rion for theoretical progress , the prediction of novel facts, may have been sufcient for what economists have considered to be theoretical progress incertain special cases, but it does not seem to be generally necessary. just as the development of economic analysis would look a dismal affair through falsicationist spectacles (latsis 1976b :8), it seems that economics would look almost as dismal on a strictly lakatosian view. the argument that empirical and theoretical advances in economics occur (and should occur) in ways other than lakatos specied in the msrp, reectsverypoorly (again) on popper. the reason is that where economics is most likely to part ways with lakatos is precisely where lakatos borrowed most heav-ily fro mp o p p e r .incertain respects, lakatoss work is much better suited toeconomics than poppers; it seems that looking for the types of things which lakatos suggests one should look for in the history of economicshas helped guide a number of important historical studies. certainly thishistorical research has drawn attention to the metaphysical hard core of cer-tain economic research programmes and it has motivated enquiry into theimportant methodological question of the relationship between empiricaland theoretical work in economics, that is, between econometrics and eco-nomic theory. what the msrp does not provide is an appropriate modelfor the acceptance or rejection of economic theories. lakatoss msrp mayconstitute methodological progress over falsicationism, but it still fails to provide economists with an acceptable criterion for theory choice (or pro-gressive problem shifts). this is part icularly telling for popper since the lakatosian t seems to be poorest where older popperian parts were usedwith the least modication. conclusion inthe nal evaluation it seems that poppe rian economic methodology must be given low marks. falsicationism, poppers fundamental programme forthe growth of scientic knowledge, is particularly ill-suited to economics

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 198 d.wade hands and while the interest in lakatos has produced some valuable historical studies,17the overall t between economics and the msrp is not good: and not good precisely where lakatos is the most popperian. this evaluation should not be too harshly interpreted though. it has been argued that popperian methodology, both in its falsicationist and msrpforms, does not provide a very good standard for judging the adequacyof economic theories; this does not mean that popperian philosophy hasnot provided any insight at all into economic theorizing. in particular, theabove argument does notsay that testing should be unimportant in eco- nomics, that lakatosian reconstructions in the history of economic thoughthave not provided valuable contributions to the historical literature, or thateconomists would have gained more by listening to some other particularschool of philosophy. inaddition to the above disclaimers it should also be noted that the discussion has entirely neglected poppers writings on the philosophy ofsocial science :his so-called situational analysis approach to social science. 18 this method, the method of explaining the behaviour of a social agent onthe basis of the logic of the agents situation and the rationality principle ,was proposed by popper as a result of the logical investigation of economicsand it provides a method which can be applied to all social science (popper1976a :102). it is often argued that the rationality principle is in conict with poppers falsicationist standards, 19but regardless of how one views this controversy, the point here is simply to note that none of the abovecriticisms automatically transfer to po ppers work on situational analysis. the task of this chapter was narrowly dened: to evaluate falsicationism and the msrp as a methodology as a tool for choosing between amongeconomic theories research programmes. it has been argued that popperianphilosophy should be negatively appraised in this respect, it does not saythat economists have nothing to learn from the popperian tradition. notes 1.helpful comments on an earlier draft were received from a number of people; in particular i would like to mention bruce caldwell, christian knudsen, uskali maki, and jorma sappinen. partial support for the research was provided by university of puget sound martin nelson award mnsa-4489 and portions of the argument also appear in hands ( 1992 ). the recent article by caldwell ( 1991 ) also provides an excellent discussion of these issues. 2.blaug ( 1976 ,1991 ), cross ( 1982 ), de marchi ( 1976 ), diamond ( 1988 ), fisher (1986 ), fulton ( 1984 ), glass and johnson ( 1988 ), hands ( 1985b ), latsis ( 1972 , 1976b ), maddock ( 1984 ), and weintraub ( 1985a ,b,1988 ), is a partial list of the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 199 workon lakatosian economics. a more complete list is contained in hands (1985b )and ( 1992 ). 3.the expression basic statement has a rather narrow interpretation in popperian philosophy. the concept was introduced in chapter v of popper ( 1959 )and it is nicely summarized in watkins ( 1984 :24754). 4.actually, as will be discussed below, scientic theories are not by themselves logically falsiable. rather, scientic theories along with (usually numerous)auxiliary hypotheses may form logically falsiable test systems (see hausman 1988 :689). 5.there are a number of different types of ad hocness in popperian philosophy; these are discussed in detail in hands ( 1988 ). the type of ad hocness consid- ered here, modication solely to avoid falsication, is called ad hoc 1.p o p p e r developed his notion of independent testability to avoid this type of ad hoc- ness (ad hoc 1ness) .another notion of ad hocness isad hoc 2ness;atheoretical modication is non ad hoc 2if some of the independently testable implica- tions actually get corroborated. a third type of ad hocness (ad hoc 3ness) was developed more fully by lakatos. non-ad hoc 3ness is equivalent to lakatosian heuristic progress. 6.the main sources for this list of criticisms are caldwell ( 1984 ), hausman ( 1985 , 1988 ), latsis ( 1976b ), and salanti ( 1987 ). 7.the duhemian problem (duhem 1954 )arises because theories are never tested alone, rather they are tested in conjunction with certain auxiliary hypotheses(including those about the data). thus if tis the theory, the prediction of evidence eis given by ta e ,w h e r e ais the set of auxiliary hypotheses. the conjunction taforms a test system and the observation of not eimplies not ( ta) rather than simply not t; the test system is falsied, not necessarily the theory. the duhemian problem is a standard issue in the philosophy oftheory testing but it has only recently been recognized as an issue for economicmethodology (see cross 1982 ,for instance). 8.experimental economics is still too young to tell whether it can substantiallyimprove this situation. for a general discussion of the methodological implica-tions of the literature on experimental economics see roth ( 1986 ), and smith (1982 ,1985 ). 9.popp er (1965 :42, 267, 3878; 1959 :434, 935, 97111; 1983 :1856). 10.this is one source of the innocuous falsication mentioned by blaug ( 1980 : 128, 259) and coddington ( 1975 :54245). the problem of such qualitative (or generic) predictions is discussed in detail in rosenberg ( 1989 ). 11.poppers most important writings on verisimilitude are contained in popper (1965 )and ( 1972 ). useful discussions of the topic are presented in koertge (1979 ), radnitzky ( 1982 ), and watkins ( 1984 ). the question of the relationship between popperian verisimilitude and economic methodology is examined inmore detail in hands ( 1991 ). 12.these concepts are discussed in detail with appropriate references to popperswritings in hands ( 1988 ). other general discussions of these popperian concepts include dilworth ( 1986 ), koertge ( 1979 ), watkins ( 1978 ,1984 ), and worrall (1978 ).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 200 d.wade hands 13.manysummaries of the msrp are available in the economics literature (blaug (1980 ), hands ( 1985a ), pheby ( 1988 ), and weintraub ( 1985a ,1985b ,1988 ) for example) but the single best presentation of the argument remains lakatos (1970 ). as with poppers falsicationism, only a sketch of the main argument is provided here. 14.the denition of novel fact has been much discussed in the lakatosian (andpopperian) literature. see carrier ( 1988 ), gardner ( 1982 ), hands ( 1985b )and worrall ( 1978 )o nt h e different notions of novelty. 15.ageneral denition of science thus must reconstruct the acknowledgedly best gambits as scientic: if it fails to do so, it has to be rejected (lakatos 1971 : 111). 16.particularly blaug ( 1991 ), maddock ( 1984 ), and weintraub ( 1988 ), though even here it depends on the exact denition of novelty one uses. 17.inaddition to those mentioned in note 16, cross ( 1982 ), de marchi ( 1976 )and latsis ( 1972 ,1976b )should be added to this list. 18.poppers clearest writings on situational analysis are ( 1976a )and ( 1985 ); also see hands ( 1985a ,1992 )and langlois and csontos (this volume). 19.according to poppers situational analysis view of social science, the action of an individual agent is explained by describing the situation the agent isin (their preferences, beliefs, constraints, etc.) and the rationality principlethat all agents act appropriately (rational ly) given their situation. the potential problem arises because the rationality principle serves as the universal law insuch scientic explanations and yet it is not clear that the rationality principleis (even potentially) falsiable as popper the falsicationist would require forthe laws used in any valid scientic explanation. this is one of the reasons thatpopp er n(popper the falsicationist) was distinguished from popper s(popper the philosopher of situational analysis) in hands ( 1985a ). refere nces blaug, m. (1976) kuhn versus lakatos, or paradigms versus research programmes in the history of economics , in s. j. latsis (ed.) method and appraisal in economics , cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 14980. (1980) the methodology of economics ,cambridge: cambridge university press. (1987) ripensamenti sulla rivduzione keynesiana , rassegna economica ,51: 60534. (1991) second thoughts on the keynesian revolution , history of political econ- omy 23: 17192 (english translation of blaug 1987). caldwell, b. j. (1982) beyond positivism: economic methodology in the twentieth century , london: all en u n w i n . (1984) some problems with falsicationism in economics , philosophy of the social sciences 14: 48995. (1991) clarifying popper , journal of economic literature 29: 133. carrier, m. (1988) on novel facts: a discussion of criteria for non-ad-hocness in the methodology of scientic research programmes , zeitschrift fur allgemeine wissenschaftstheorie 19: 20531.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 201 coddington, a. (1975) the rationale of general equilibrium theory , economic inquiry 13: 53958. cross, r. (1982) the duhemquine thesis, lakatos, and the appraisal of theories in macroeconomics , economic journal 92: 32040. de marchi, n. (1976) anomaly and the development of economics: the case of the leontief paradox , in s. j. latsis (ed.) method and appraisal in economics ,cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 10927. (ed.) (1988) the popperian legacy in economics ,cambridge: cambridge uni- versity press. diamond, a. m., jr. (1988) the empirical progressiveness of the general equilibrium research program , history of political economy 20: 11935. dilworth, c. (1986) scientic progress: a study concerning the nature of the rela- tions between successive scientic theories ,second edition, dordrecht, netherlands: d. reid el. duhem, p . (1954) the aim and structure of physical theory ,(translated by p . p . wiener), princeton, new jersey: princeton university press. fisher, f. m. (1986) the logic of economic discovery ,washington square, new y ork: newyork university press. fulton, g. (1984) research programmes in economics , history of political economy 16: 187205. gardner, m. r. (1982) predicting novel facts , british journal for the philosophy of science 33: 115. gellner, e. (1974) legitimation of belief ,cambridge: cambridge university press. glass, j. c. and johnson, w. (1988) metaphysics, msrp and economics , british journal for the philosophy of science 39: 31329. hands, d. w. (1985a) karl popper and economic methodology: an e wl o o k ,economics and philosophy 1: 8399. (1985b) second thoughts on lakatos , history of political economy 17: 116. (1988) ad hocness in economics and the popperian tradition , in de marchi, n. (ed.) the popperian legacy in economics and beyond ,cambridge: cambridge univer- sity press, pp. 12137. (1991) the problem of excess content: economics, novelty and a long popperian tale , in n. de marchi and m. blaug (eds) appraising economic theories ,aldershot: edward elgar 5875. (1992) falsication, situational analysis and scientic research programs: the popp erian tradition in economic methodology , in n. de marchi (ed.) post-popperian methodology of economics ,b o s t o n :k luwer. hausman, d. m. (1985) is falsicationism unpracticed or unpracticable? , philosophy of the social sciences 15: 31319. (1988) an appraisal of popperian economic methodology , in de marchi, n. (ed.) the popperian legacy in economics and beyond ,cambridge: cambridge university press, 6585. hutchison, t. w. (1938) the signicance and basic postulates of economic theory ,l o n d o n : macmillan (reprinted, 1960, new y ork: augustus m. kelley). (1988) the case for falsicationism , in de marchi, n. (ed.) the popperian legacy in economics and beyond ,cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 16981.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 202 d.wade hands koertge, n. (1979) the problems of appraising scientic theories , in p . d. asquith and h. e. kyburg, jr. (eds) currentresearch in philosophy of science, east lansing ,m i c higan: philosophy of science association, pp. 228251. kuhn, t. s. (1970) the structure of scientic revolutions ,second edition, chicago: uni- versity of chicago press. (first edition 1962, chicago: university of chicago press.) lakatos, i. (1970) falsication and the methodology of scientic research programmes , in i. lakatos and a. musgrave (eds) criticism and the growth of knowledge ,cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 91196. (1971) history of science and its rational reconstructions , in r. c. buck and r. s. cohen (eds) boston studies in the philosophy of science ,vol. 8, dordrecht, netherlands: d.reidel, pp. 91136. latsis, s. j. (1972) situational determinism in economics , british journal for the philos- ophy of science 23: 20745. (ed.) (1976a) method and appraisal in economics ,cambridge: cambridge uni- versity press. (1976b) a research programme in economics , in s. j. latsis (ed.) method of appraisal in economics ,cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 141. mccloskey, d. (1985) the rhetoric of economics ,madison wisconsin: university of wisconsin press. maddock, r. (1984) rational expectations macrotheory: a lakatosian case study in program adjustment , history of political economy 16: 291309. pheby, j. (1988) methodology and economics: a critical introduction ,london: macmillan. popper, k. r. (1959) the logic of scientic discovery ,london: hutchinson. (1965) conjectures and refutations ,s e c o n de d i t ion, new y ork: harper row. (1970) normal science and its dangers , in i. lakatos and a. musgrave (eds) crit- icism and the growth of knowledge ,cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 518. (1972) objective knowledge: an evolutionary approach ,o xford: oxford univer- sity press. (1976a) the logic of the social sciences , in t. w. adorno et al. (eds) the positivist dispute in german sociology (translated by g. adey and d. frisby), new york:harper row, pp. 87104. (1976b) unended quest ,lasalle, illinois: open court. (1983) realism and the aim of science (edited by w. w. bartley iii) t otowa, new jersey: rowman littleeld. (1985) the rationality principle , in d. miller (ed.) popper selections ,p rinceton: princeton universtiy press, pp. 35765. radnitzky, g. (1982) knowing and guessing: if all knowledge is conjectural, can we then speak of cognitive progress? on persistent misreading of poppers work , zeitschrift f ur allgemeine wissenschafstheorie 8: 11021. rosenberg, a. (1989) are generic predictions enough? , erkenntnis 30: 4368. roth, a. e. (1986) laboratory experimentation in economics , economics and philosophy 2: 24573. salanti, a. (1987) falsicationism and fallibilism as epistemic foundations of economics: acritical view , kyklos 40: 36892. smith, v . l. (1982) microeconomic systems as an experimental science , american eco- nomic review 72: 92355. (1985) experimental economics: reply , american economic review 75: 26572.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 203 watkins, j. (1978) the popperian approach to scientic knowledge , in g. radnitzky and g. anderson (eds) progress and rationality in science ,dordrecht, netherlands: d.reidel, pp. 2343. (1984) science and skepticism ,princeton, new jersey: princeton university press. weintraub, e. r. (1985a) appraising general equilibrium analysis , economics and phi- losophy 1: 2337. (1985b) general equilibrium analysis: studies in appraisal ,cambridge: cam- bridge university press. (1988) the neowalrasian program is empirically progressive , in de marchi, n. (ed.) the popperian legacy in economics and beyond ,cambridge: cambridge univer- sity press. worrall, j. (1978) the ways in which the metho dology of scientic research programmes improves on poppers methodology , in g. radnitzky and g. anderson (eds) progress and rationality in science ,dordrecht, netherlands: d. reidel, pp. 4570.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 204

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 part three ideology and normative economics economic questions are often policy questions, and the answers affect the well-being of millions. although many sciences have technical uses, the prac- tical importance of economics is special. indeed, in addition to positive economics, which aims to predict and perhaps to explain economic phe-nomena, there is also normative economics, which aims to guide policy.inaddition, economics is built around a theory of rationality, which seems also to be normative, though in a different way. the connections between economics and values raise several different kinds of methodological questions, which are discussed in the ve essaysin this part iii. in the rst essay, joseph schumpeter explores how gen-eral evaluative visions as well as specic value commitments have shapedthe development of economics. the next three essays by nicholas kaldor,michael s. mcpherson and myself, and robert h. frank lay out the founda- tions of normative economics and explore some of the difculties to whichit is subject. finally, amartya sens capability and well-being, presentsaradical alternative to standard normative economics, which is currently attracting a great deal of attention. 205

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 206

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 eleven science and ideology joseph schumpeter joseph schumpeter (18831950) was born in trietsch, austria, and studied law and economics at the university of vienna. he taught in austria and germanybefore coming to harvard in the 1930s. the essay reprinted here was schumpeterspresidential address to the american economic association in 1948. schumpetermade major contributions to the understanding of economic growth and crises,and his history of economic analysis is perhaps the greatest work ever written on the history of economics. schumpeters capitalism, socialism and democracy is also a major contribution to economics and political theory. i ahundred years ago economists were much more pleased with their per- formance than they are today. but i submit that, if complacency can everbe justied, there is much more reason for being complacent today thanthere was then or even a quarter of a century ago. as regards command offacts, both statistical and historical, this is so obviously true that i need notinsist. and if it be true of our command of facts, it must be true also for allthe applied elds that for their advance mainly depend upon fact nding.imust insist, however, on the proposition that our powers of analysis have growninstepwith our stock of facts. a new or ganon of statistical methods has emerged, to some extent by our own efforts, that is bound to mean asmuchtous as it does to all the sciences, such as biology or experimental psychology, the phenomena of which are given in terms of frequency dis-tributions. in response to this development and in alliance with it, as well as independently, our own box of analytic tools has been greatly enriched:economic theory, in the instrumental sense of the term in which it means reprinted by permission of the american economic association from american economic review ,vol. 39(1949): 34559. 207

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 208 joseph schumpeter neither the teaching of ultimate ends of policy nor explanatory hypotheses but simply the sum total of our methods of handling facts has grown quiteas much as marshall and pareto had foreseen that it would. ifthis is not more generally recognized and if it is etiquette with economists let alone the public to pass derogatory judgment on thestate of our science, this is owing to a number of causes that, though knownall too well, should be repeated: a building plot on which old structures arebeing torn down and new ones erected is not an esthetic thing to behold;moreover, to a most discouraging extent the new structures are being cur-rently discredited by premature attempts at utilitarian application; nally, the building area widens so that it becomes impossible for the individualworker to understand everything that is going on beyond his own small sec- tor.itwould indeed be difcult to present in systematic form, as the smiths, mills, and marshalls have been able to do with more or less success, a com- prehensive treatise that might display some measure of unity and commandall but universal approval. thus, though the workers in each sector are not atall displeased with how they are getting on themselves, they are quite likelytodisapprove of the manner in which those in all the others go about their tasks, or even to deny that these other tasks are worth bothering about at all.this is but natural. many types of mind are needed to build up the struc-ture of human knowledge, types which never quite understand one another.science is technique and the more it develops, the more completely does itpass out of the range of comprehension not only of the public but, minushis own chosen specialty, of the research worker himself. more or less, thisis so everywhere although greater uniformity of training and greater disci-pline of endeavor may in physics reduce the tumult to something like order.aseveryone knows, however, there is with us another source of confusion and another barrier to advance: most of us, not content with their scien-tic task, yield to the call of public duty and to their desire to serve theircountry and their age, and in doing so bring into their work their individual schemes of values and all their policies and politics the whole of theirmoral personalities up to their spiritual ambitions. iamnot going to reopen the old discussion on value judgments or about the advocacy of group interests. on the contrary, it is essential for my purposetoemphasize that in itself scientic performance does not require us to divest ourselves of our value judgments or to renounce the calling of an advocateof some particular interest. t o investigat efacts or to develop tools for doing so is one thing; to evaluate them from some moral or cultural standpoint is,in logic ,another thing, and the two need not conict. similarly, the advocate of some interest may yet do honest analytic work, and the motive of proving

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 209 apoint for the interest to which he owes allegiance does not in itself prove anything for or against this analytic work: more bluntly, advocacy does not imply lying. it spells indeed misconduct to bend either facts or inferencesfrom facts in order to make them serve either an ideal or an interest. butsuch misconduct is not necessarily inherent in a workers arguing fromaxiological premises or in advocacy per se . 1examples abound in which economists have established propositions for the implications of which theydid not have any sympathy. t o mention a single instance: to establish thelogical consistency of the conditions (equations) that are descriptive of asocialist economy will seem to most people equivalent to gaining a pointfor socialism; but it was established by enrico barone, a man who, whateverelse he may have been, was certainly no sympathizer with socialist ideals orgroups. butthere exist in our minds preconceptions about the economic process that are much more dangerous to the cumulative growth of our knowledgeand the scientic character of our analytic endeavors because they seembeyond our control in a sense in which value judgments and special pleadingsare not. though mostly allied with these, they deserve to be separated fromthem and to be discussed independentl y.weshall call them ideologies. ii the word ideologie was current in france toward the end of the eighteenth and in the rst decade of the nineteenth century and meant much the samething as did the scottish moral philosophy of the same and an earlier timeor as our own social science in that widest acceptance of the term in whichit includes psychology. napoleon imparted a derogatory meaning to it byhis sneers at the ideologues doctrinaire dreamers without any sense for the realities of politics. later on, it was used as it is often used today inorder to denote systems of ideas, that is, in a way in which our distinctionbetween ideologies and value judgments is lost. we have nothing to do withthese or any other meanings except one that may be most readily introducedbyreference to the historical materialism of marx and engels. according tothis doctrine, history is determined by the autonomous evolution of the structure of production: the social and political organization, religions,morals, arts and sciences are mere ideological superstructures, generatedbythe economic process. weneither need nor can go into the merits and demerits of this conception as such 2of which only one feature is relevant to our purpose. this feature is the one that has, through various transformations, developed into the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 210 joseph schumpeter sociology of science of the type associated with the names of max scheler and karl mannheim. roughly up to the middle of the 19th century the evolution of science had been looked upon as a purely intellectual process as asequence of explorations of the empirically given universe or, as we mayalso put it, as a process of liation of discoveries or analytic ideas that wenton, though no doubt inuencing social history and being inuenced by itin many ways, according to a law of its own. marx was the rst to turn thisrelation of interdependence between science and other departments of social history into a relation of dependence of the former on the objectivedata of the social structure and in particular on the social location of scien-tic workers that determines their outlook upon reality and hence what theysee of it and how they see it. this kind of relativism which must of coursenot be confused with any other kind of relativism 3ifrigorously carried to its logical consequences spells a new philosophy of science and a new denitionof scientic truth. even for mathematics and logic and still more for physics,the scientic workers choice of problems and of approaches to them, hencethe pattern of an epochs scientic thought, becomes socially conditioned which is precisely what we mean when speaking of scientic ideology rather than of the ever more perfect perception of objective scientic truths. fewwill deny, however, that in the cases of logic, mathematics, and physics the inuence of ideological bias does not extend beyond that choice of prob-lems and approaches, that is to say, that the sociological interpretation doesnot, at least for the last two or three centuries, challenge the objective truthof the ndings. this objective truth may be, and currently is being, chal-lenged on other grounds but not on the ground that a given proposition istrue only with reference to the social location of the men who formulated it. t o some extent at least, this favorable situation may be accounted for bythe fact that logic, mathematics, physics and so on deal with experience thatis largely invariant to the observers so cial location and practically invari- ant to historical change: for capitalist and proletarian, a falling stone looksalike. the social sciences do not share this advantage. it is possible, or soit seems, to challenge their ndings not only on all the grounds on whichthe propositions of all sciences may b echallenged but also on the additional one that they cannot convey more than a writers class afliations and that,without reference to such class afliations, there is no room for the cate- gories of true or false, hence for the conception of scientic advance at all.henceforth we adopt the term ideology or ideological bias for this real or supposed state of things alone, and our problem is to ascertain the extenttowhich ideological bias is or has been a factor in the development of what conceivably it might be a misnomer to call scientic economics.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 211 inrecognizing the ideological element it is possible to go to very different lengths. there are a few writers who have in fact denied that there is such athing in economics as accumulation of a stock of correctly observed factsand true propositions. but equally small is the minority who would denythe inuence of ideological bias entirely. the majority of economists standbetween these extremes: they are ready enough to admit its presence though,like marx, they nd it only in others and never in themselves; but they donot admit that it is an inescapable curse and that it vitiates economics to itscore.itisprecisely this intermediate position that raises our problem. for ideologies are not simply lies ;they are truthful statements about what a man thinks he sees. just as the medieval knight saw himself as he wished to seehimself and just as the modern bureaucrat does the same and just as bothfailed and fail to see whatever may be adduced against their seeing themselvesas the defenders of the weak and innocent and the sponsors of the commongood, so every other social group develops a protective ideology which isnothing if not sincere. ex hypothesi weare not aware of our rationalizations how then is it possible to recognize and to guard against them? butlet me repeat before i go on: i am speaking of science which is tech- nique that turns out the results which, together with value judgments orpreferences, produce recommendations, either individual ones or systemsof them such as the systems of mercantilism, liberalism, and so on. i amnot speaking of these value judgments and these recommendations them-selves. i fully agree with those who maintain that judgments about ultimatevalues about the common good, for instance are beyond the scientistsrange except as objects of historical study, that they are ideologies by nature and that the concept of scientic progress can be applied to them only sofar as the means may be perfected that are to implement them. i share theconviction that there is no sense in saying that the world of ideas of bour- geois liberalism is superior in any relevant sense to the world of ideasof the middle ages, or the world of ideas of socialism to that of bourgeoisliberalism. actually, i further believe that there is no reason other than per-sonal preference for saying that more wisdom or knowledge goes into ourpolicies than went into those of the tudors or stuarts or, for that matter,into charlemagnes. iii so soon as we have realized the possibility of ideological bias, it is not difculttolocate it. all we have to do for this purpose is to scrutinize scientic pro- cedure. it starts from the perception of a set of related phenomena which we

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 212 joseph schumpeter wish to analyze and ends up for the time being with a scientic model in which these phenomena are conceptualized and the relations between themexplicitly formulated, either as assumptions or as propositions (theorems). this primitive way of putting it may not satisfy the logician but it is all weneed for our hunt for ideological bias. two things should be observed. first, that perception of a set of related phenomena is a prescientic act. it must be performed in order to give to our minds something to doscientic work on to indicate an object of research but it is not scienticin itself. but though prescientic, it is not preanalytic. it does not simplyconsist in perceiving facts by one or more of our senses. these facts must be recognized as having some meaning or relevance that justies our interest in them and they must be recognized as related so that we might separate themfrom others which involves some analytic work by our fancy or commonsense. this mixture of perceptions and prescientic analysis we shall callthe research workers vision or intuition. in practice, of course, we hardlyever start from scratch so that the prescientic act of vision is not entirely our own. we start from the work of our predecessors or contemporariesor else from the ideas that oat around us in the public mind. in this caseour vision will also contain at least some of the results of previous scienticanalysis. however, this compound is still given to us and exists before westart scientic work ourselves. second, if i have identied with model building the scientic analysis that operates upon the material proffered by the vision, i must add at oncethat i intend to give the term model a very wide meaning. the expliciteconomic model of our own day and its analoga in other sciences are ofcourse the product of late stages of scientic endeavor. essentially, however, they do not do anything that is not present in the earliest forms of analyticendeavor which may therefore also be said to have issued, with every indi-vidual worker, in primitive, fragmentary, and inefcient models. this work consists in picking out certain facts rather than others, in pinning them down by labeling them, in accumulating further facts in order not only tosupplement but in part also to replace those originally fastened upon, informulating and improving the relations perceived briey, in factualand theoretical research that go on in an endless chain of give and take,the facts suggesting new analytic instruments (theories) and these in turncarrying us toward the recognition of new facts. this is as true when theobject of our interest is an historical report as it is when the object of ourinterest is to rationalize the schr odinger equation though in any particular instance the task of fact nding or the task of analyzing may so dominatethe other as to almost remove it from sight. schoolmasters may try to make

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 213 this clearer to their pupils by talking about induction and deduction and even set the one against the other, creating spurious problems thereby. the essential thing, however we may choose to interpret it, is the endless giveand take between the clear concept and the cogent conclusion on the onehand, and the new fact and the handling of its variability on the other. now, so soon as we have performed the miracle of knowing what we cannot know, namely the existence of the ideological bias in ourselves andothers, we can trace it to a simple source. this source is in the initial visionof the phenomena we propose to subject to scientic treatment. for thistreatment itself is under objective control in the sense that it is always pos- sible to establish whether a given statement, in reference to a given stateof knowledge, is provable, refutable, or neither. of course this does notexclude honest error or dishonest faking. it does not exclude delusions of awide variety of types. but it does permit the exclusion of that particular kind of delusion which we call ideology because the test involved is indif-ferent to any ideology. the original vision, on the other hand, is under nosuch control. there, the elements that will meet the tests of analysis are,bydenition, undistinguishable from those that will not or as we may also put it since we admit that ideologies may contain provable truth up to 100 percent the original vision isideology by nature and may contain any amount of delusions traceable to a mans social location, to the manner inwhich he wants to see himself or his class or group and the opponents ofhis own class or group. this should be extended even to peculiarities of hisoutlook that are related to his personal tastes and conditions and have nogroup connotation there is even an ideology of the mathematical mind as well as an ideology of the mind that is allergic to mathematics. itmay be useful to reformulate our problem before we discuss examples. since the source of ideology is our pre- and extrascientic vision of the economic process and of what is causally or teleologically important init and since normally this vision is then subjected to scientic treatment,it is being either veried or destroyed by analysis and in either case shouldvanish qua ideology. how far, then, does it fail to disappear as it should? howfar does it hold its own in the face of accumulating adverse evidence? andhowfar does it vitiate our analytic procedure itself so that, in the result, weare still left with knowledge that is impaired by it? from the outset it is clear that there is a vast expanse of ground on which there should be as little danger of ideological vitiation as there is inphysics. a time series of gross investment in manufacturing industry maybe good or bad, but whether it is the one or the other is, normally, opentoanyone to nd out. the walrasian system as it stands may or may not

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 214 joseph schumpeter admit of a unique set of solutions but whether it does or not is a matter of exact proof that every qualied person can repeat. questions like thesemay not be the most fascinating or practically most urgent ones but theyconstitute the bulk of what is speci cally scientic in our work. and they are in logic although not always in fact neutral to ideology. moreover, theirsphere widens as our understanding of analytic work improves. time waswhen economists thought that they were gaining or losing a point for laborif they fought for the labor-quantity and against the marginal-utility theoryof value. it can be shown that, so far as ideologically relevant issues areconcerned, this makes as little difference as did the replacement of the latter bythe indifference-curve approach or the replacement of the indifference curves by a simple consistency postulate (samuelson). i dare say that thereare still some who nd something incongruous to their vision in marginal-productivity analysis. y et it can be shown that the latters purely formalapparatus is compatible with any vision of economic reality that anyoneever had. 4 iv letusnowlook for ideological elements in three of the most inuential structures of economic thought, the works of adam smith, of marx, and ofkeynes. inadam smiths case the interesting thing is not indeed the absence but the harmlessness of ideological bias. i am not referring to his time- andcountry-bound practical wisdom about laissez-faire ,freetrade, colonies and the like for it cannot be repeated too ofte na mans political preferences and recommendations as such are entirely beyond the range of my remarksor rather they enter this range only so far as the factual and theoretical anal-ysis does that is presented in support of them. i am exclusively referring tothis analytical work itself only to his indicatives, not to his imperatives.this being understood, the rst question that arises is what kind of ideologyweare to attribute to him. proceeding on the marxist principle we shall look to his social location, that is, to his personal and ancestral class afl-iations and in addition to the class connotation of the inuences that mayhave formed or may have helped to form what we have called his vision. hewas a homo academicus whobecame a civil servant. his people were more or less of a similar type: his family, not penniless but neither wealthy, keptup some standard of education and fell in with a well-known group in thescotland of his day. above all it did notbelong to the business class. his general outlook on things social and economic reproduced these data to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 215 perfection. he beheld the economic process of his time with a cold critical eyeand instinctively looked for mechanical rather than personal factors of explanation such as division of labor. his attitude to the land-owning and to the capitalist classes was the attitude of the observer from outsideand he made it pretty clear that he considered the landlord (the slothfullandlord who reaps where he has not sown) as an unnecessary, and the cap-italist (who hires industrious people and provides them with subsistence,rawmaterials, and tools) as a necessary evil. the latter necessity was rooted in the virtue of parsimony, eulogy of which evidently came from the bot-tomofhis scottish soul. apart from this, his sympathies went wholly to the laborer who clothes everybody and himself goes in rags. add to thisthe disgust he felt like all the people in his group at the inefciency of theenglish bureaucracy and at the corruption of the politicians and you havepractically all of his ideological vision. while i cannot stay to show how muchthis explains of the picture he drew, i must emphasize that the other component of this vision, the natural-law philosophy that he imbibed in his formative years, the product of similarly conditioned men, inuenced theideological background from which he wrote in a similar manner naturalfreedom of action, the workmans natural right to the whole product ofindustry, individualistic rationalism and so on, all this was taught to himere his critical faculties were developed but there was hardly need to teachhim these things for they came naturally to him in the air he breathed.butand this is the really interesting point all this ideology, however strongly held, really did not do much harm to his scientic achievement.unless we go to him for economic sociology, 5wereceivefromhim sound factual and analytic teaching that no doubt carries date but is not open toobjection on the score of ideological bias. there is some semiphilosophicalfoliage of an ideological nature but it can be removed without injury tohis scientic argument. the analysis that supports his qualied free-tradeconclusions is not as it was with some contemporaneous philosophers, such as morellet based upon the proposition that by nature a man is freetobuy or to sell where he pleases. the statement that the (whole) produce is the natural compensation of labor occurs, but no analytic use is made ofit everywhere the ideology spends itself in phraseology and for the restrecedes before scientic research. in part at least, this was the merit of the man: he was nothing if not responsible; and his sober and perhaps somewhatdry common sense gave him respect for facts and logic. in part it was goodfortune: it matters little if his analysis has to be given up as the psychology it was meant to be if at the same time it must be retained as a logical schema of economic behavior on closer acquaintance, the homo economicus (so far

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 216 joseph schumpeter as adam smith, the author of the moral sen timents ,can in fact be credited or debited with this conception at all) turns out to be a very harmless man of straw. marxwas the economist who discovered ideology for us and who under- stood its nature. fifty years before freud, this was a performance of the rstorder. but, strange to relate, he was entirely blind to its dangers so far as hehimself was concerned. only other people, the bourgeois economists andthe utopian socialists, were victims of ideology. at the same time, the ide-ological character of his premises and the ideological bias of his argumentare everywhere obvious. even some of his followers (mehring, for instance)recognized this. and it is not difcult to describe his ideology. he was a bourgeois radical who had broken away from bourgeois radicalism. he wasformed by german philosophy and did not feel himself to be a professionaleconomist until the end of the 1840s. but by that time, that is to say, before his serious analytic work had begun, his vision of the capitalist process hadbecome set and his scientic work was to implement, not to correct it. itwas not original with him. it pervaded the radical circles of paris and maybe traced back to a number of 18th century writers, such as linguet. 6his- toryconceived as the struggle between classes that are dened as haves and havenots ,with exploitation of the one by the other, ever increasing wealth among even fewer haves and ever increasing misery and degradation among thehavenots ,moving with inexorable necessity toward spectacular explo- sion, this was the vision then conceived with passionate energy and to beworked up, like a raw material is being worked up, by means of the scientic tools of his time. this vision implies a number of statements that will not stand the test of analytic controls. and, in fact, as his analytic work matured,marxnot only elaborated many pieces of scientic analysis that were neutral tothat vision but also some that did not agree with it well for instance, he got over the kind of underconsumption and the kind of overproductiontheories of crises which he seems to have accepted at rst and traces ofwhich to puzzle interpreters remained in his writings throughout. otherresults of his analysis he introduced by means of the device of retaining the original ideological statement as an absolute ( i.e.,abstract) law while admitting the existence of counteracting forces which accounted for devi-ating phenomena in real life. some parts of the vision, nally, took refugein vituperative phraseology that does not affect the scientic elements inan argument. for instance, whether right or wrong, his exploitation theoryof surplus value was a genuine piece of theoretical analysis. but all theglowing phrases about exploitation could have been attached just as well toother theories, b ohm-bawerks among them: imagine b ohm-bawerk in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 217 marxsskin, what could have been easier for him than to pour out the vials of his wrath on the infernal practice of robbing labor by means of deductingfrom its product a time discount? butsome elements of his original vision in particular the increasing misery of the masses which was what was to goad them into the nal revo-lution that were untenable were at the same time indispensable for him.they were too closely linked to the innermost meaning of his message, toodeeply rooted in the very meaning of his life, to be ever discarded. moreover,they were what appealed to followers and what called forth their fervent alle- giance. it was they which explain the organizing effect the party-creating effect of what without them would have been stale and lifeless. and so webehold in this case the victory of ideology over analysis: all the consequencesof a vision that turns into a social creed and thereby renders analysis sterile. keynes vision the source of all that has been and is more or less denitely identied as keynesianism appeared rst in a few thoughtful paragraphs inthe introduction to the consequences of the peace (1920). these paragraphs created modern stagnationism stagnationist moods had been voiced, at intervals, by many economists before, from britannia languens on (1680) and indicate its essential features, the features of mature and arterioscleroticcapitalist society that tries to save more than its declining opportunities forinvestment can absorb. this vision never vanished again we get anotherglimpse of it in the tract on monetary reform and elsewhere but, other prob- lems absorbing keynes attention during the 1920s, it was not implementedanalytically until much later. d. h. robertson in his banking policy and the price level presented some work that amounted to partial implementation of the idea of abortive saving. but with keynes this idea remained a sideissue even in the treatise on money .perhaps it was the shock imparted by the world crisis which denitely broke the bonds that prevented him fromfully verbalizing himself. certainly it was the shock imparted by the worldcrisis which created the public for a message of this kind. again it was the ideology the vision of decaying capitalism that located (saw)the cause of the decay in one out of a large number of features of latter-day society which appealed and won the day, and not the analyticimplementation by the book of 1936 which, by itself and without the protec-tion it found in the wide appeal of the ideology, would have suffered muchmore from the criticisms that were directed against it almost at once. still, theconceptual apparatus was the work not only of a brilliant but also of a mature mind of a marshallian who was one of the three men who had shared thesages mantle between them. throughout the 1920s keynes was and felt him-self to be a marshallian and even though he later on renounced his allegiance

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 218 joseph schumpeter dramatically, he never deviated from the marshallian line more than was strictly necessary in order to make his point. he continued to be what hehad become by 1914, a master of the theorists craft, and he was thus abletoprovide his vision with an armour that prevented many of his followers from seeing the ideological element at all. of course this now expedites theabsorption of keynes contribution into the current stream of analytic work.there are no really new principles to absorb. the ideology of underemploy-ment equilibrium and of non-spending which is a better term to use thansaving is readily seen to be embodied in a few restrictive assumptions thatemphasize certain (real or supposed) facts. with these everyone can deal ashe thinks t and for the rest he can continue his way. this reduces keynesiancontroversies to the level of technical science. lacking institutional support, the creed has petered out with the situation that had made it convincing.even the most stalwart mccullochs of our day are bound to drift into one of those positions of which it is hard to say whether they involve renunciation,reinterpretation, or misunderstanding of the original message. v our examples might suggest that analytically uncontrolled ideas play their role exclusively in the realm of those broad conceptions of the economic pro- cess as a whole that constitute the background from which analytic effort sets out and of which we never succeed in fully mastering more than segments.this is of course true to some extent the bulk of our research work dealswith particulars that give less scope to mere vision and are more strictly con- trolled by objective tests but not w holly so. take, for instance, the theory of saving which does appear in a wider context in the keynesian system butmight also, factually and theoretically ,betreated by itself. from the time of turgot and smith in fact from still earlier times to the time of keynes all the major propositions about its nature and effects have, by slow accretion,been assembled so that, in the light of the richer supply of facts we commandtoday, there should be little room left for difference of opinion. it should be easy to draw up a summarizing (though perhaps not very exciting) analysisthat the large majority of professional economists might accept as a mat-ter of c ourse. but there is, and always has been, eulogistic or vituperative preaching on the subject that, assisted by terminological tricks such as theconfusion between saving and nonspending, has succeeded in producing asham antagonism between the writers on the subject. much emphasized differences in doctrine for which there is no factual or analytical basis alwaysindicate, though in themselves they do not prove, the presence of ideological

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 219 bias on one side or on both which in this case hails from two different attitudes to the bourgeois scheme of life. another instance of sectional ideology of this kind is afforded by the atti- tude of many, if not most economists, toward anything in any way connectedwith monopoly (oligopoly) and cooperat ivepricesetting (collusion). this attitude has not changed since aristotle and molina although it has acquiredapartially new meaning under the conditions of modern industry. now as then, a majority of economists would subscribe to molinas dictum: monop- olium est injustum et rei publicae injuriosum .but it is not this value judgment which is relevant to my argument one may dislike modern largest-scalebusiness exactly as one may dislike many other features of modern civi-lization but the analysis that leads up to it and the ideological inuencethat this analysis displays. anyone who has read marshalls principles ,s t i l l more anyone who has also read his industry and trade ,should know that among the innumerable patterns that are covered by those terms there aremany of which benet and not injury to economic efciency and the con-sumers interest ought to be predicted. more modern analysis permits toshow still more clearly that no sweeping or unqualied statement can betrue for all of them; and that the mere facts of size, single-sellership, dis- crimination, and cooperative price sett ing are in themselves inadequate for asserting that the resulting performance is, in any relevant sense of the word,inferior to the one which could be expected under pure competition in con-ditions attainable under pure competition in other words, that economicanalysis offers no material in support of indiscriminate trust busting and that such material must be looked for in the particular circumstances of eachindividual case. nevertheless, many economists support such indiscriminate trust busting and the interesting point is that enthusiastic sponsors of the private-enterprise system are particularly prominent among them. theirsis the ideology of a capitalist economy that would ll its social functionsadmirably by virtue of the magic wand of pure competition were it not forthe monster of monopoly or oligopoly that casts a shadow on an otherwisebright scene. no argument avails about the performance of largest-scalebusiness, about the inevitability of its emergence, about the social costsinvolved in destroying existing structures, about the futility of the hallowedideal of pure competition or in fact ever elicits any response other thanmost obviously sincere indignation. even as thus extended, our examples, while illustrating well enough what ideology is, are quite inadequate to give us an idea of the range of its inu-ence. the inuence shows nowhere more strongly than in economic historywhich displays the traces of ideological premises so clearly, precisely because

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 220 joseph schumpeter they are rarely formulated in so many words, hence rarely challenged the subject of the role that is to be attributed in economic development to the ini-tiative of governments, policies, and politics affords an excellent instance:groupwise, economic historians have systematically over- or understated the importance of this initiative in a manner that points unequivocally toprescientic convictions. even statist ical inference loses the objectivity that should in good logic characterize it whenever ideologically relevant issuesare at stake. 7andsome of the sociological, psychological, anthropological, biological waters that wash our shores are so vitiated by ideological biasthat, beholding the state of things in parts of those elds, the economistmight sometimes derive solace from comparison. had we time, we couldeverywhere observe the same phenomenon: that ideologies crystallize, that they become creeds which for the time being are impervious to argument;that they nd defenders whose very souls go into the ght for them. there is little comfort in postulating, as has been done sometimes, the existence of detached minds that are immune to ideological bias and ex hypothesi able to overcome it. such minds may actually exist and it is in fact easy to see that certain social groups are further removed than are othersfrom those ranges of social life in which ideologies acquire additional vigorin economic or political conict. but though they may be relatively free fromthe ideologies of the practitioners, they develop not less distorting ideologiesof their own. there is more comfort in the observation that no economicideology lasts forever and that, with a likelihood that approximates certainty,weeventually grow out of each. this follows not only from the fact that social patterns change and that hence every economic ideology is bound to witherbut also from the relation that ideology bears to that prescientic cognitiveact which we have called vision. since this act induces fact nding andanalysis and since these tend to destroy whatever will not stand their tests,no economic ideology could survive indenitely even in a stationary socialworld. as time wears on and these tests are being perfected, they do their workmore quickly and more effectively. butthis still leaves us with the result that some ideology will always be with us and so, i feel convinced, it will. butthis is no misfortune. it is pertinent to remember another aspect of the relation between ideology and vision. that prescientic cognitive act which is the source of our ideologies is also the prerequisite of our scientic work.nonew departure in any science is possible without it. through it we acquire new material for our scientic endeavors and something to formulate, todefend, to attack. our stock of facts and tools grows and rejuvenates itself inthe process. and so though we proceed slowly because of our ideologies,wemight not proceed at all without them.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c11 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:20 science and ideology 221 notes 1.this passage should be clear. but it may be as well to make its meaning more explicit. the misconduct in question consists, as stated, in bending facts or logic in order to gain a point for either an ideal or an interest irrespective of whether a writer states his preference for the cause for which he argues or not .i n d e p e n dently of this, it may be sound practice to require that everybody should explicitly statehis axiological premises or the interest for which he means to argue wheneverthey are not obvious. but this is an additional requirement that should not beconfused with others. 2.inparticular, its acceptance is no prerequisite of the validity of the argument that is to follow and could have been set forth also in other ways. there are, however,some advantages in starting from a doctrine that is familiar to all and that needsonly to be mentioned in order to call up, in the mind of the audience, certainessential notions in a minimum of time. 3.ishould consider it an insult to the intelligence of my readers to emphasize that in particular this kind of relativism has nothing to do with einsteinian relativity wereit not a fact that there actually are instances of this confusion in the philosophicalliterature of our time. this has been pointed out to me by professor philippfrank. 4.the contrary opinion that is sometimes met with is to be attributed to the simplied versions of the marginal-productivity theory that survive in text-booksand do not take into account all the restrictions to which production functions aresubject in real life, especially if they are production functions of going concerns for which a number of technological data are, for the time being, unalterablyxed just as in elementary mechanics no account is taken of the complicationsthat arise so soon as we drop the simplifying assumption that the masses of bodiesare concentrated in a single point. but a marginal-productivity theory that doestake account of restrictions which, even in pure competition, prevent factorsfrom being paid according to their marginal productivities is still marginal-productivity theory. 5.even there, so i have been reminded by professor e. hamilton, there is perhaps more to praise than there is to blame. 6.see especially s. n. h. linguet, la th eorie des lois civiles (1767), and marxs comments on him in volume 1, pp. 77 et seq .o fthetheorien uber den mehrwert . 7.iamnot aware of any instances in which the rules of inference themselves have been ideologically distorted. all the more frequent are instances in which the rigor of tests is relaxed or tightened according to the ideological appeal of the proposition under discussion. since accep tance or rejection of a given statistical result always involves some risk of being wrong, mere variation in willingness to incur such a risk will sufce, even apart from other reasons, to produce that well-known situation in which two statistical economists draw opposite inferencesfrom the same gures.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c12 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:18 twelve welfare propositions of economics and interpersonal comparisons of utility nicholas kaldor nicholas kaldor (19081986) was born in budapest and educated in budapest, berlin, and at the london school of economics. in addition to an academic career, which was centered at cambridge university, kaldor served as an advisor to severalgovernments and was instrumental in devising the value added tax (v at). in thisbrief essay, originally published in 1939, he argues that the net benet of a policy the amount that winners would be willing to pay minus the amount that loserswould need to be compensated provides a measure of the capacity of an economy to satisfy preferences that does not require interpersonal comparisons or any judgmentconcerning the justice of different distributions. in a separate essay published in the same year, john hicks defends the same idea, and assessment of alternatives in termsof net benets is often called the kaldor-hicks efciency criterion. inthe december 1938 issue of the e conomic journal professor robbins returns to the question of the status of interpersonal comparisons of utility.1 itis not the purpose of this note to question professor robbins view regard- ing the scientic status of such comparisons; with this the present writer is in entire agreement. its purpose is rather to examine the relevance of thiswhole question to what is commonly called welfare economics. in previ-ous discussions of this problem it has been rather too readily assumed, onboth sides, that the scientic justication of such comparisons determineswhether economics as a science can say anything by way of prescription.the disputants have been concerned only with the status of the comparisons;they were apparently agreed that the status of prescriptions necessarilydepends on the status of the comparisons. this is clearly mr. harrods view. he says: 2consider the repeal of the cornlaws. this tended to reduce the value of a specic factor of production land. it can no doubt be shown that the gain to the community as a whole economic journal ,vol. 49 (1939): 54952. reproduced by permission of blackwell publishing. 222

p1: jzp 9780521883504c12 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:18 welfare propositions of economics and interpersonal comparisons 223 exceeded the loss to the landlords but only if individuals are treated in some sense as equal .otherwise how can the loss to some and that there was a loss can hardly be denied be compared with the general gain? if the incomparability of utility to different individuals is strictly pressed, not onlyare the prescriptions of the welfare school ruled out, but all prescriptionswhatever. the economist as an adviser is completely stultied, and unlesshis speculations be regarded as of paramount aesthetic value, he had betterbe suppressed completely. this view is endorsed by professor robbins: 3 all that i proposed to do was to make clear that the statement that social wealth was increased [by free trade] itself involved an arbitrary element that the proposition should run, ifequal capacity for satisfaction on the part of the economic subjects be assumed, then social wealth can be said tobe increased. objective analysis of the effects of the repeal of duties only showed that consumers gained and landlords lost. that such an arbitraryelement was involved was plain. it seemed no less plain, therefore, that, hereas elsewhere, it should be explicitly recognised. itcan be demonstrated, however, that in the classical argument for free trade n os u c ha r b i t r a r ye l e m e n ti si n v o l v e da ta l l .t h ee f f e c t so ft h er e p e a lo f the corn laws could be summarised as follows: (i) it results in a reductionin the price of corn, so that the same money income will now represent ahigher real income; (ii) it leads to a shift in the distribution of income, so that some peoples ( i.e.,the landlords) incomes (at any rate in money terms) will be lower than before, and other peoples incomes (presumably those of other producers) will be higher. since aggregate money income canbe assumed to be unchanged, if the landlords income is reduced, the incomeof other people must be correspondingly increased. it is only as a result ofthis consequential change in the distribution of income that there can be anyloss of satisfactions to certain individuals, and hence any need to comparethe gains of some with the losses of others. but it is always possible forthe government to ensure that the previous income-distribution should bemaintained intact: by compensating the landlords for any loss of incomeand by providing the funds for such compensation by an extra tax on thosewhose incomes have been augmented. in this way, everybody is left as welloff as before in his capacity as an income recipient; while everybody is betteroff than before in his capacity as a consumer. for there still remains thebenet of lower corn prices as a result of the repeal of the duty. inall cases, therefore, where a certain policy leads to an increase in physical productivity, and thus of aggregate real income, the economists case for thepolicy is quite unaffected by the question of the comparability of individualsatisfactions; since in all such cases it is possible tomake everybody better off

p1: jzp 9780521883504c12 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:18 224 nicholas kaldor than before, or at any rate to make some people better off without making anybody worse off. there is no need for the economist to prove as indeedhe never could prove that as a result of the adoption of a certain measurenobody in the community is going to suffer. in order to establish his case,it is quite sufcient for him to show that even if all those who suffer asaresult are fully compensated for their loss, the rest of the community will still be better off than before. whether the landlords, in the free-trade case, should in fact be given compensation or not, is a political question onwhich the economist, quaeconomist, could hardly pronounce an opinion. the important fact is that, in the argument in favour of free trade, thefate of the landlords is wholly irrelevant: since the benets of free trade arebyno means destroyed even if the landlords are fully reimbursed for their losses. 4 this argument lends justication to the procedure, adopted by profes- sor pigou in the economics of welfare ,ofdividing welfare economics into two parts: the rst relating to production, and the second to distribu-tion. the rst, and far the more important part, should include all thosepropositions for increasing social welfare which relate to the increase inaggregate production; all questio ns concerning the stimulation of employ- ment, the equalisation of social net products, and the equalisation of priceswith marginal costs, would fall under this heading. here the economist is on sure ground; the scientic status of his prescriptions is unquestionable,provided that the basic postulate of economics, that each individual prefersmore to less, a greater satisfaction to a lesser one, is granted. in the secondpart, concerning distribution, the economist should not be concerned withprescriptions at all, but with the relative advantages of different ways of carrying out certain political ends. for it is quite impossible to decide on eco-nomic grounds what particular pattern of income-distribution maximisessocial welfare. if the postulate of equal capacity for satisfaction is employedas a criterion, the conclusion inescapably follows that welfare is necessarilygreatest when there is complete equality; yet one certainly cannot exclude the possibility of everybody being happier when there is some degree ofinequality than under a r egime of necessary and complete equality. (here iamnot thinking so much of differences in the capacity for satisfactions between different individuals, but of the satisfactions that are derived fromthe prospect of improving ones inc ome by ones own efforts a prospect which is necessarily excluded when a r egime of complete equality prevails.) andshort of complete equality, how can the economist decide precisely how much inequality is desirable i.e.,howmuchsecures the maximum total satisfaction? all that economics can, and should, do in this eld, is to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c12 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:18 welfare propositions of economics and interpersonal comparisons 225 show, given the pattern of income-distribution desired, which is the most conve nient way of bringing it about. london school of economics notes 1.interpersonal comparisons of utility: a comment, e conomic journal , december 1938, pp. 635691. 2.scope and method of economics, ibid. ,september 1938, pp. 396397. (italics mine.) 3.loc. cit. ,p.638. 4.this principle, as the reader will observe, simply amounts to saying that there is no interpersonal comparison of satisfactions involved in judging any policydesigned to increase the sum total of wealth just because any such policy could be carried out in a way as to secure unanimous consent. an increase in themoney value of the national income (given prices) is not, however, necessarily asufcient indication of this condition being fullled: for individuals might, as aresult of a certain political action, sustain losses of a non-pecuniary kind e.g.,i f workers derive satisfaction from their particular kind of work, and are obliged to change their employment, something more than their previous level of money income will be necessary to secure their previous level of enjoyment; and thesame applies in cases where individuals feel that the carrying out of the policyinvolves an interference with their individual freedom. only if the increase intotal income is sufcient to compensate for such losses, and still leaves something over to the rest of the community, can it be said to be justied without resort tointerpersonal comparisons.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 thirteen the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson michael s. mcpherson (1947 ) received his ph.d. from the university of chicago and taught for many years at williams college before becoming president of macalester college and then of the spencer foundation. his academic work con- cernsthe economics of higher education and issues at the boundaries of economics and ethics. he and daniel hausman founded the journal economics and philosophy in 1985 and edited it for its rst ten years. they also coauthored economic analysis, moralphilosophy, and public policy ,fromw hich this essay derives. letusbegin with an old joke. brezhnev and other members of the soviet central committee are reviewing a may day parade in moscow. thousands of infantry march by, followed by armored cars, the latest tanks, long rangeartillery, and progressively larger, sleeker, and more impressive missiles. atthe end, a battered atbed truck rumbles by carrying a half-dozen unathleticand bespectacled middle-aged men and women in dirty raincoats sitting around a card table. the crowd is restless and members of the centralcommittee are scandalized. one is bold enough to ask brezhnev what these nondescript civilians are doing in the midst such a magnicent militaryparade. brezhnev replies, ah, those are our economists. y oud be amazedat the damage they can do. like most economist jokes, this one is unkind, but its unkindness should not be exaggerated. it refers to the damage economists cando, not to any inevitable harm that they cause. and there is no suggestion that their inten-tions are evil. economics can unfortunately do great harm, but we think thatit can do good, too. it is a sharp two-edged sword that needs to be mastered this essay derives from a long collaboration, which led to the publication of economic analysis and moral philosophy in 1996 and a second edition, economic analysis, moral philosophy, and public policy in 2006. in between, hausman published an essay, the philosophical foundations of normative economics, in ayogu and ross 2005 ,which borrowed from the rst edition and strongly inuenced this essay. 226

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 227 and handled with care. economics has done harm mainly because it has been misunderstood or misused by political and economic interests. there is littlethat philosophers or economists can do to combat powerful interests whoare ready to exploit any theory economic, political, even philosophical torationalize their ambition and greed. but philosophers and economists can clarify the interpretation of economic theory and thereby remove confu-sions and make its ideological misapplication at least a little bit more difcult.suchis the objective of this essay with respect to mainstream normative eco- nomics. our hope is that an understanding of the contestable assumptionsupon which normative economists rely can help prevent people from beingbuffaloed by condent proclamations of economic wisdom. 1. a notorious example letusbegin with a notorious example to illustrate the central features of normative economics and to show why an inquiry into its philosophicalfoundations is needed. in december 1991, lawrence summers, then the chiefeconomist at the world bank, sent a memorandum to colleagues containingthe following remarks: just between you and me, shouldnt the world bank be encouraging more migration of the dirty industries to the ldcs [less developed countries]? i can think of threereasons: (1) the measurement of the costs of health-impairing pollution depends on the foregone earnings from increased morbidity and mortality. from this pointof view a given amount of health-impairing pollution should be done inthe country with the lowest cost, which will be the country with the lowestwages. ... (2)...ive always thought that under-populated countries in africa are vastly under polluted; their air quality is probably vastly inefciently [high] com- pared to los angeles or mexico city. only the lamentable facts that so muchpollution is generated by non-tradable industries (transport, electrical gen-eration) and that the unit transport costs of solid waste are so high preventworld-welfare-enhancing trade in air pollution and waste. (3) the demand for a clean environment for aesthetic and health reasons is likely tohave very high income-elasticity. the concern over an agent that causes aone-in-a-million change in the odds of prostate cancer is obviously going tobe much higher in a country where people survive to get prostate can- certhan in a country where under-5 mortality is 200 per thousand. ...the problem with the arguments against all of these proposals for more pollutionin ldcs (intrinsic rights to certain goods, moral reasons, social concerns,lack of adequate markets, etc.) could be turned around and used more orless effectively against every bank proposal for liberalisation. (quoted in the economist ,february 8, 1992, p. 66)

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 228 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson summers was not seriously proposing a world bank program to export pollution to the ldcs. this memorandum is of interest instead becausesummers baldly put into words uncomfortable implications that most economists would prefer not to draw. summerss memorandum makes claims about what the world bank should be doing, and it describes some facts as lamentable. summers is clearly making evaluative claims, and his work would be excluded fromeconomics by those who insist that economics must be free of any valuejudgments. y et this memorandum obviously seems to be concerned witheconomics. one way to recognize this, while still insisting on the impor-tance of distinguishing between factual and evaluative claims, is to maintainthat there are two kinds of economics: positive economics, which dealsonly with matters of fact, and normative economics, which is concernedwith the evaluation of economic states of affairs, processes, and institutions. summerss memorandum is clearly an instance of normative economics. itis useful to distinguish seven features of summerss memorandum, which are typical of mainstream normative economics or welfare eco-nomics. each of these features represents a choice :summerss way of think- ing about economic states of affairs and policies is just one of many possible ways. once one recognizes what distinguishes this way of thinking aboutoutcomes and policies from other ways, one understands a great deal aboutnormative economics. 1. summers is concerned with evaluating economic states of affairs and with recommending how to improve them. his focus is on economic outcomes rather than processes. 2. summers assumes that there is a single framework for economic eval- uation, which he takes for granted. he relies on an unstated ethicalfoundation that he believes his readers share. 3. the memorandum considers how policies and states of affairs bear onindividuals .noquestions are asked about the signicance of their effects on other things such as the environment or local cultures, exceptinsofar as those in turn affect the welfare of individuals. 4. the memorandum evaluates economic states of affairs exclusively in termsoftheir consequences for individual welfare .because of the prevalence of this feature, mainstream normative economics is typ-ically called welfare economics. 5. in measuring welfare, the memorandum implicitly accepts the way that markets evaluate things. 6. although the memorandum focuses exclusively on welfare, it does not add up welfare gains and losses or compare the welfare gains and losses

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 229 of different people. summers does not claim that trade in pollution would maximize total or average welfare. 7. in addition to focusing exclusively on the welfare implications of shift- ing pollution, the memorandum suggests that there is a qualitative difference between the impeccable economic logic of dumping a load of toxic waste in the lowest-wage country [our emphasis] andmiscellaneous and unspecied ethical objections in terms of intrinsicrights to certain goods, moral reasons, social concern, lack of adequate markets, etc. summers implies that the welfare arguments are rigor-ous and worth taking seriously, while the miscellaneous objections canbe disregarded. 1although welfare economists rarely deny that other moral considerations are relevant to evaluating policies and outcomes,they are often suspicious, impatient, or even contemptuous of otherethical concerns. some of these seven features of welfare economics are widely shared in the thought and culture of modern liberal democracies, whereas othersare more distinctive to mainstream economics. none of these features ofwelfare economics, even these that are widely shared with liberal social theory more generally, is inevitable. each involves a choice, and each featurecould be questioned or changed. these choices are both methodological and ethical. although welfare is obviously very important, so is freedomand so is justice. normative economics might focus on them in additiontoor instead of welfare. there are alternatives, and to choose among them requires ethical reection. table 13.1 lists some of the alternatives to the choices economists have made and helps to make clear what is distinctive about the standards ofevaluation that normative economics relies on. 2. summerss argument airand water pollution lessen the quality of life in many ways, yet most kinds of pollution have no market prices, because it is difcult to locatethe sources of some pollution and expensive to strike a deal with all thepolluters in order to improve your air or water. in addition, any deal youstrike with polluters will affect your neighbor and vice versa while walkingtothe corner, youve got to breathe the same air your neighbor breathes. any effective d eal will require cooperation among your neighbors. thus, some collective action is often needed in controlling pollution. one way that economists can help with the problems of controlling pollution isbyimputing costs to it. the hope is to gure out what pollution costs would

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 230 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson table 13.1. the moral framework of normative economics 1. what should economists appraise? a. outcomes b.processes 2. what method(s) of appraisal should economists use a. single method of appraisal b.multiple ethical perspectives, depending on problem 3. what matters about outcomes? a. consequences for individuals b.consequences for groups or the environment 4. which features of outcomes for individuals matter? a. welfare b. fr eedom c. rightsd. justice 5. what is welfare? a. the satisfaction of preferences b.some mental state, such as happiness c. objective goods; e.g. achievements, personal relations, health, etc. 6. how does welfare (as preference satisfaction) bear on the evaluation of outcomes? a. marketevaluation and the pareto concepts 2 b.adduppreference satisfaction 7. what role do other ethical notions play? a. independent: important, but not a concern of economics b.their importance is derivable from their consequences for welfare c. must be integrated into the economic appraisald. of no importance be, if there were markets where pollution could be bought and sold. for example, economists may attempt to impute pollution costs by examining housing prices in communities that are much the same, apart from their airquality. economists have a number of ingenious techniques by which theycan estimate how much people in developed countries would be willingtopay to lessen pollution in their environment and how much people in ldcs would have to be compensated in order to be willing to accept morepollution. summers argues in addition that these measurements do not result from peoples ignorance or mistaken beliefs. in his view, the economic costs of theconsequences of increased pollution are in fact muchlower in ldcs than they are in developed countries. rational and well-informed people in ldcsshould be happy to sell pollution rights to people in developed countries for apricethat the latter should be happy to pay. the willingness to accept more

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 231 pollution in ldcs does not rest on mistakes about the consequences of doing so. suppose that environmental quality could be bought and sold in indi- vidual privately consumable units and consider whether rational and well- informed individuals, who live in a particular ldc, l,could strike deals to sell units of environmental quality to rational and well-informed individ-uals, who live in a developed country, d.i flis one of those underpolluted ldcs that summers refers to, it has a great deal of inexpensive environmen-tal quality, whereas in d,bycontrast, environmental quality is costly and scarce. so unless the price of a unit of environmental quality is extremelyhigh or extremely low, individuals in both l and dwill want to trade. so if individuals were all rational and well informed, and it were possible for individuals easily to buy, sell, and transport pollution or environmen-tal quality, there would be active trading between the developed and lessdeveloped nations of the world, and pollution would be pouring out of thedeveloped nations and into the less deve loped nations. this happy outcome is not feasible, because units of environmental quality cannot be individu-ally appropriated, bought, and sold, and it is hard to transport pollution.summers laments these barriers to trade, and he thinks the world bank can enhance world welfare by helping to move pollution to ldcs in return forsome measure of compensation. merely shifting pollution to ldcs, without paying any compensation could not, of course, be mutually benecial, because the ldcs would be harmed. but it would still result in what economists call a net bene- t, because the developed countries could compensate the ldcs and still allegedly be better off. we shall discuss the notion of a net benet and thejustication for favoring policies that provide net benets later in section 7. whyshould summers conclude that it is lamentable that pollution is generated by non-tradable industries? how does summers reach theconclusion that the world bank [should] be encouraging more migration of the dirty industries to the ldcs? how do normative economists get fromclaims about how rational and well-informed individuals would choose to claims about welfare and from claims about welfare to claims about what the world bank ought t od o?what is the logic of summerss argument? here is one way to spell i to u t : 1. for some amount of compensation cbetween the least agents in ldc will accept and the most agents in rich countries will offer, all rational individuals, whether in developed countries or in ldcs, would prefertotransfer pollution from a developed country to a ldc. (premise)

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 232 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson 2. whatever well-informed and rational individuals prefer makes them better off. (premise) 3. so exporting pollution to ldcs from developed countries and paying compensation makes everyone better off. (from 1 and 2) 4. one should adopt policies that make people better off. (premise)5. one should adopt policies that shift pollution to ldcs and pay com- pensation. (from 3 and 4) ifone assumes that the jobs and revenues provided by dirty industries are adequate compensation, then this reco nstruction may capture summerss intentions. the tone of summerss memorandum suggests that the three numbered paragraphs make a scientic case, whereas the last paragraph mentionswishy-washy moral objections. but the moral content does not wait for the last paragraph to make its appearance. as this reconstruction shows,the three numbered paragraphs are part of a moral argument. one of its moral premises (premise 2) is particularly important to the link betweenmarket evaluation and welfare. by identifying welfare and preference satis-faction and then relying on the connection that positive economics estab-lishes between preferences and market prices, summers can link premisesabout costs and demands to conclusions about what outcomes will enhance welfare. the uproar caused by this memo suggests that most people are not willing toaccept its conclusion. why not? why shouldnt the world bank encourage migration of dirty industries? here are ve objections: 1. encouraging dirty industries to migrate to ldcs might lead to more total pollution. developed countries have stronger incentives, greater administrative capacity, and more resources to enforce pollution con-trols than do ldcs. this is an important objection, but it does not chal- lenge summerss framework, and we shall say nothing more about it. 2. even if people in both developed economies and ldcs would prefer toshift pollution to ldcs in exchange for appropriate compensation, the exchange may be unfair .developed countries are exploiting the poverty of ldcs which, in addition, they are often responsible for. itmay not be right to make people better off if doing so involves injustice.justice matters, too. 3. summerss analysis compares only one possible alternative to the sta- tus quo: that of shifting pollution to ldcs. but there may be otherpolicies that would be better still. notice in particular that summersscase depends on the huge income disparities between rich and poor

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 233 countries: without those disparities, why would people in nigeria pay less to avoid pollution than people in the united states? should this status quo income disparity be simply taken as given? transferringwealth from rich to poor countries might enhance welfare more effec- tively than transferring pollution. 4. satisfying preferences does not automatically increase welfare. people may prefer things that are bad for them. voluntary exchange is notalways mutually advantageous. 5. premise 1, that all rational and well-informed agents would prefer tomake the exchange is also controversial. this premise is itself the conclusion of an argument from the fact that the (economic) costs of pollution are lower in ldcs than in developed countries. but dothe economic costs and benets capture what is morally relevant? dorational and well-informed individuals have to accept the markets evalu- ation of the consequences of the pollution ?isnt premise 1 a controversial moral premise, too? given the current unequal distribution of wealth,preventing or curing a crippling injury or a case of aids confers muchgreater economic benets in rich countries than in poor ones. but the moral signicance of crippling injuries or of aids should not dependon whether the victim lives in a wealthy country or on the victims owncurrent or prospective income or wealth. one can thus reasonably raisemoral objections to regarding economic costs and benets as a guideto w hatought tobe done. costs and prices have a contestable moral signicance built into them. infact, economists do not typically identify the value of a human life with the loss of expected earnings or with the differing amounts different people would pay to prevent a death, and in a serious argument for a worldbank initiative, summers would probably not have done so. but why not?ifeconomic costs and benets are a good guide to what is harmful and benecial, then they should be a good guide to the allocation of risks of deathand injury; and if they are not a good guide to the allocation of risks of deathand injury, why should one believe that they provide an acceptable way tomeasure benets or harms? summers reduces the question of whether ldcsare underpolluted to the question of whether the welfare consequencesof shifting more pollution to the ldcs would be favorable. welfare forsummers, as for most economists, is preference satisfaction. the cost of the consequences of pollution is thus the amount by which peoples preferences are less well satised. and summerss measure of preference satisfaction iswillingness-to-pay. 3

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 234 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson although more provocative and transparent than most normative eco- nomics, summerss memorandum exemplies common features of main- stream economic evaluation. normative economists typically attempt tooffer policy advice while setting aside considerations such as intrinsic rightstocertain goods, moral reasons, social concerns. they focus exclusively on welfare, which they associate with preference and willingness to pay. so nor- mative economics is welfare economics. normative economists also typicallymake inferences concerning welfare on the basis of data concerning willing-ness to pay, and these inferences are inevitably biased toward the preferencesof those who are rich. 4 letusthen back up and spend some time with the philosophical founda- tions. why do normative economists focus exclusively on welfare, and whyare they committed to this theory of welfare? 3. individualism, rationality, and self-interest atthe core of both positive economics and welfare economics lie controver- sial commitments to individualism and to a particular view of human nature . inparticular, one should distinguish three varieties of individualism: onto- logical, explanatory, and ethical individualism and two views of humannature: human nature as rational and human nature as self-interested. inits simplest formulation, ontological individualism maintains that only mental states and physical objects, including human beings, are real. cul-tures, social institutions, and so forth are not real. they must be understoodinstead as reications of features of the physical environment or of the phys-ical and mental states of people. ontological individualism is untenable anddifcult to formulate sensibly. we mention it only to distinguish it sharplyfrom explanatory and ethical individualism. explanatory individualism (or what is often called methodological indi- vidualism) can be interpreted in many ways. sometimes, it is interpreted as the view that explanations of social phenomena that refer to social enti-ties are at best provisional, if not downright objectionable. the form ofexplanatory individualism to which economists subscribe is less restrictive. economists have no qualms about explanations that cite facts about prices,incomes, laws, or contracts, and all of these are, of course, social entities.the explanatory individualism that economists typically assume maintainsthat the fundamental explanatory principles or laws (apart from the lawsof the natural sciences) should concern the preferences, beliefs, and choicesof individual human beings. for example, an explanation of the effects ofgovernment scal policy that cites a particular value of the multiplier is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 235 acceptable only because economists believe that the value of the multiplier can at least in principle be explained in terms of individual preferences,beliefs, and choices given specic initial conditions. the explanatory indi-vidualism to which most economists subscribe concedes that social entities and facts have causal consequences, but it insists that those consequencesare mediated by the beliefs, preferences, and choices of individuals. we arenot sure whether this version of explanatory individualism is ultimatelydefensible. before turning in the next section toethical individualism, let us explore how explanatory individualism interacts with the two theses concerningrationality to determine the broad outlines of mainstream economics. the rst of the two theses concerning human nature is that human beings arerational .the core idea is that explanations of individual choices also often justify those choices. the factors that cause choices also function as rea- sonsfor choices. people act for reasons and it is typically possible to justify their actions in terms of their beliefs and preferences. if one conjoins thisbasic view of human nature with explanatory individualism, one arrivesat the view that the central explanatory principles of economics should beprinciples of rational individual choice. accordingly, one nds that a theory of rationality lies at the heart of both positive and normative mainstream economics. although many economistsidentify rationality and material self-interest, the ofcial theory of rationalitydenies that any particular objective, such as self-interest, is any more or lessrational than any other objective. the ofcial theory of rationality is formal . rationality lies in the structure orform of choice and preferences, not in the content of what is preferred or chosen. the theory of rationality embedded in mainstream economics states that individuals choose (or act) rationally if their actions are determined bytheir preferences, and their preferences are themselves rational. in modelingbeliefs as subjective probabilities, economists also accept an implicit theoryof rational belief, which we shall not discuss here. preferences are rational ifthey are complete and transitive. an agents preferences are complete if theyrank all the alternatives the agent faces. for any two options xand y,either the agent prefers xtoyorytox,orthe agent is indifferent between xand y.anagents preferences are transitive if the agent prefers xtozwhen ever the agent prefers xtoyand ytoz(and similarly for indifference). there are further technical issues, but the basic idea is that when an agent has rationalpreferences, then regardless of the content of the preferences the agenthas a consistent preference ranking of all the alternatives among which theagent can choose. it is as if the objects of choice could be written down in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 236 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson alist, with the more preferred alternatives in higher rows and alternatives among which the agent is indifferent sharing the same rows. numbers can beassigned to rows, and those numbers which are only indices representingplaces in the preference ranking are what economists call ordinal utilities.autility function is just an assignment of numbers to alternatives in a way that indicates preference. maximizing utility is simply doing what onemost prefers. utility is not itself an object of preference. it is not somethingsought or traded off against other things, because it is not a thing at all. the theory of rationality is a normative theory, although notbyitself a moral theory. ones preferences can be as rational in the pursuit of evil asin the pursuit of good. if one fails to choose what one prefers, then one isfoolish, not necessarily morally culpable. as a normative theory, the theoryof rationality says how people should behave, not what people actually do. behavior that conicts with the theory may thus show only that people fail toact rationally, rather than revealing any mistake in the theory. but if peopleschoices and preferences were not approximately in accord with the standard theory of rationality, then that theory would have little use except as a basisfor criticism; and those who take human nature to be fundamentally rationalwould grow suspicious of the theory. mainstream economists in fact take the further step of assuming that people are in fact rational, at least to somereasonable degree of approximation. the standard formal theory of rationality does not go very far in esh- ing out explanatory individualism and a view of human nature as rational.without any general claims about the content of peoples preferences, very little can be predicted about how they will choose, and, in the wake of theirchoices, little can be said except that they chose as they preferred. positive economics becomes contentful only when economists offer generalizationsconcerning whatpeople prefer. the most important of these generalizations is that people are materially self-interested, that they prefer more commodi-ties to fewer, more wealth to less wealth. this generalization is so important,that one might reasonably think of it as a second general principle of humannature to which most mainstream economists are committed. inspeaking of rationality and self-interest as general principles of human nature to which economists subscribe, we do not mean to suggest thateconomists regard these principles as exceptionless general laws. just as onecan in various ways qualify the claim that individuals are rational, so one canhedge the claim that they are self-interested. economists may, for example,take self-interest to be a reasonable approximation rather than the literaltruth. economists can avoid dealing with the conicts between self-interest and concern for ones family by cheating on explanatory individualismand treating agents as households rather than as individuals. and so forth.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 237 with the addition of self-interest, the fundamental theory now has signif- icant content. add diminishing marginal utility (or diminishing marginalratesofsubstitution), the assumption that people are well informed, and subsidiary assumptions concerning, for example, the divisibility of com-modities, and economists can use their fundamental theory to explain mar-ketphenomena such as the law of demand. 4. moral foundations: ethical individualism and welfare toput forward a theory of normative economics requires that economists say something about ethics. here again, economists are committed to a formof individualism. ethical individualism is the view that social entities are of nointrinsic moral importance. there is moral reason to protect a culture, a religion, a state, a tribe, or a corporation if and only if doing so is required bymoral concern for individual human beings. ethical individualism leaves open the possibility that nonhuman animals, or perhaps even plants, haveintrinsic moral worth. it denies specically that there is anything morallysignicant about the interests of social entities, unless their protection canbe linked to concerns about individuals. these days, ethical individualism is increasingly controversial, as many of those who defend multiculturalism in the united states and who opposeglobalization across the world argue for the importance of protecting dis- tinctive local cultures. but a recognition of the enormous value of localcultures and of the enormous harm that results from their disruption isnot inconsistent with ethical individualism. ethical individualists shouldvalue local cultures very highly when they benet their members and do notharm outsiders, and the loss of cultural variation in the long run may be as harmful to those who belong to hegemonic cultures as to those who belongtoendangered cultures. treating the moral value of cultures, languages, or other social practices as instrumental rather than intrinsic is fully consistentwith valuing them extremely highly, but it does mean that the ethical indi- vidualist has no moral regrets about the death of social practices that do not promote the rights, freedoms, and interests of individuals. most western ethical theories endorse some version of ethical individu- alism. utilitarianism adopts a particularly simple variant. according to theutilitarian, only the welfare of sentient beings matters morally. so socialpolicies, processes, practices, and institutions should be appraised by theirconsequences for individual well-being. utilitarians can nevertheless nd room to value justice, equality, and individual rights and liberties, as all these things contribute to individual well-being. mainstream welfare economics,which was in fact inuenced by utilitarianism, at rst glance appears to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 238 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson follow utilitarianism in reducing ethical individualism which is a plausi- ble and humane doctrine to the more dubious view that only individualwelfare is of intrinsic moral importance. itis not very informative to say that individual welfare is the sole thing of intrinsic moral importance until on ehas spelled out what welfare is, and without some means of tracing the welfare consequences of policies and of measuring welfare, this view does not help to evaluate policies. benthamtook utility to be that property of objects that causes sensations of pleasure in us (broome 1991 ). mill took well-being to be happiness, but it is far from clear what he took happiness to be ( 1863 ,chapter 3). economists have not been eager to wade into these murky philosophical waters, 5yetwithout some notion of what welfare might be and some way of measuring welfare,they would have no way to evaluate policies or to offer guidance to policymakers. economists have opted for the view that welfare can be measured by the extent to which preferences are satised. although there is surely someconnection between welfare and preference satisfaction, it is unjustiable to identify them. if welfare were the satisfaction of preference, then it wouldbe not only unusual to prefer to sacrice ones own welfare to some otherend; it would be logically impossible! if welfare were the satisfaction ofpreference, then smoking would benet those who prefer to smoke evenif their preferences depended on their ignorance of the consequences ofsmoking. if welfare were the satisfaction of preference, then we would bebetter off if, as we prefer, there are no nuclear wars in the twenty-sixthcentury, even though we will by then alas have been dead for centuries. whythen do mainstream economists nevertheless identify welfare and preference satisfaction? there are many explanations. one mistaken way tolink welfare and preference is to equivocate on the word, utility, whichis both the name that positive economists give to an index of the extent towhich preferences are satised and the name that the utilitarians gave tothat which morality aims to maximize. if one erroneously takes the word torefer to the same thing in both contexts, then one will conclude that welfare is the satisfaction of preferences. it is also easy to equivocate on the word,satisfaction. a persons preference is satised if things are as the person prefers them to be, regardless of how well satised the person feels.i n d eed, many preferences may be satised without the person even knowing. y et itis easy to slide from the view that welfare is a mental state such as a feeling ofsatisfaction to the view that welfare is the satisfaction of preference. a thirdmistaken route to the position that welfare is the satisfaction of preferencesrests on the confusion of this view of welfare with the condemnation of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 239 paternalism. if whatever people prefer is automatically better for them, then the question of whether it is justiable to coerce people for their own goodcan never even arise. but there are better ways to object to paternalismthan to maintain falsely that people never prefer harmful alternatives. inhis famous critique of paternalism in on liberty (1859 ), john stuart mill criticizes the view that people should be coerced when they make choicesthat frustrate their own ends. he does not argue that whatever people chooseis automatically good for them. there are also more respectable routes to the identication of welfare and the satisfaction of preference. given the two basic theses concerning humannature that mainstream economists accept that individuals are rationaland that they are self-interested people will prefer xtoyif and only if they believe that they will be better off with xthan with y.ifone supposes in addition as positive economists typically do that peoples beliefs aregenerally correct, then people will prefer xtoyif and only if they are in fact better off with xthan with y.regardless of what welfare is,peoples preferences will then be a good guide to what makes them better off. 5. repudiating interpersonal comparisons mainstream normative economics is distinctive, because it focuses almost exclusively on welfare, because it measures welfare by preference satisfac- tion, and because it denies that it is possible to compare welfare levels ordifferences across people. this last feature distinguishes welfare economicssharply from utilitarianism, which judges policies by their consequences fortotal or average utility. ifone individual prefers xtoyand another has the opposite preferences, then the rst individuals preferences can be represented by a utility functionthat assigns a higher number to xthan to y,and the seconds preferences can be represented by a utility function that assigns a smaller number to xthan to y.but if these are ordinal utility functions that merely represent preference ranking, then the magnitudes of the numbers are otherwise completely arbitrary. any attempt to add up the utility indices to determine whetherpreferences are better satised with xor with yshows a misunderstanding of what the indices mean. the comparison of the utility sums depends on anarbitrary assignment of utility indices and says nothing at all about whichalternative satises preferences better. if there is nothing more to say aboutpreferences than an ordinal utility function says, then utility differencescould not be compared even for a single individual, and utilities could never be added or subtracted or compared across individuals.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 240 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson ifthe preferences of individuals satisfy the stronger axioms of expected utility theory, then it is possible to represent them with utility functions in which utility sums and differences are not arbitrary.6ifone had, in addition, some way to compare the utilities of different individuals, then the waywould be cleared to formulate a utilitarian welfare economics. but what sense can one make of comparisons of the extent to which the preferencesof different individuals are satised? economists have stressed the problemsof getting evidence concerning interpersonal comparisons of preferencesatisfaction, while we would stress the problems of even making senseof such comparisons (see hausman 1995 ). in any case, such comparisons are highly problematic, and positive economics makes no use of them. so it is easytosee why normative economists have been hesitant to make interpersonal utility comparisons. denying the possibility of making interpersonal welfare comparisons largely determines the character of mainstream (normative) economics.itundercuts any hope of developing a general ethical theory, such as util- itarianism, that can encompass other dimensions of moral appraisal, suchas freedom, rights, equality, and justice, because all of these are concernedwith the differing weights of claims of different persons, which cannot be addressed within a welfarist framework unless one can make interpersonalcomparisons. few economists have the temerity to follow bentham and to condemn all other moral considerations as rhetorical nonsense nonsense upon stilts. so some strategy is inevitable whereby economists appraisepolicies, outcomes, and institutions other things being equal or alongjust one among several moral dimensions. the idea that there is, thus, a specically economic dimension of eval- uation determines the character of mainstream normative economics. it isthis idea that makes it possible to envision a normative economic theory , as opposed to a set of normatively motivated inquiries into consequencesand properties of economic policies and institutions. welfare economicsdepends not only on a specic view of welfare but also on the view thatinquiries into welfare can be separated from inquiries into freedom, rights,equality, and justice. in one way, this separation limits economists. theycan only appraise policies along one dimension or in one regard. but it alsofrees them from having to be concerned with anything but welfare. havingpassed the buck with respect to every thing except preference satisfaction, economists have only too often felt themselves free to ignore all other moralquestions and to exaggerate the signicance of their own partial mode ofevaluation. but even without this exaggeration, the notion that there is a separate dimension of economic evaluat ion is, as we shall see, questionable.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 241 6. pareto improvements, pareto efciency, and welfare theorems appraising policies, outcomes, and institutions in terms of welfare without the possibility of making interpersonal comparisons is like running a racewith your feet tied together. just as it is possible awkwardly to hop 100 or 200 meters, so one can judge that xis better than yif somebody prefers xtoyand nobody prefers ytox.inthis case economists say that xis pareto superior toyor that xis a pareto improvement over y.the judgment that pareto improvements are, other things being eq ual, moral improvements requires an additional weak moral judgment (which is arguably implicit in ethicalindividualism) that it is a good thing to make people better off. but evengranting that additional judgment, the unanimity in preference required by the pareto standard is seldom available. in serious policy debates none ofthe alternatives are pareto superior to any of the others. inaddition to the notion of pareto superiority, economists also dene the notion of a pareto optimum or of a pareto efcient state of affairs. xis pareto optimal or pareto efcient if and only if there is no alternative that is paretosuperior to x.n o t icexsbeing pareto optimal does not imply that xis pareto superior to the alternatives, even to nonoptimal alternatives. suppose, forpurposes of illustration, that there are two people aand band ten units of bread to distribute between them and that both aand bprefer more units tofewer, regardless of how many units they have. then anydistribution of bread to individuals that does not waste any bread is a pareto optimum, butnone of these pareto efcient states of affairs is pareto superior to any of theothers. furthermore, consider an inefcient state of affairs, such as one inwhich both aandbget four units and two units rot. distributions whereby both get ve units or one gets four and the other gets six are pareto superiortothe distribution where both get four. but a pareto efcient state of affairs in which one gets nine units and the other gets one is not pareto superior tothe inefcient state of affairs in which both get four. tosay of a state of affairs that it is pareto efcient is thus to express faint praise. the only thing praiseworthy about a pareto efcient state of affairsis that it is not subject to one sort of criticism: it does not pass up anyopportunities to satisfy some peoples preferences better without sacricingthe preference satisfaction of somebody else. the fact that a pareto efcientstate of affairs is not faulty in this way may count for very little. in the simpleexample given here, if individuals will starve if they do not have at least two units of bread, the inefcient state of affairs where both get four units ismuchbetter than the efcient state of affairs where one gets nine units and the other gets only one.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 242 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson letusemphasize that we are here questioning the moral importance of the theoretical notion of pareto optimality or pareto efciency. we are not questioning the moral importance of efciency. inefciencies meanthat fewer needs can be met. in harsh circumstances, inefciencies meanmore suffering. but there is a huge difference between a recognition of theimportance of efciency and an infatuation with pareto optimality. mainstream economists have linked pareto efciency to competitive mar- ketequilibrium in two general welfare theorems. the rst maintains that perfect competition guarantees pareto efciency. insofar as pareto efciencyis a good thing, so is perfect competition. the second theorem says that anydistribution of income can be achieved as a perfectly competitive marketoutcome given the right initial distribution of resources. so, rather thanregarding society as facing a trade-off between the efciency provided by the market and various moral concerns about equity, one can have both.concerns about equity can be met by xing the initial distribution, and the market can then be relied on to bring about an efcient outcome. readers should not be overly impressed with either of these theorems. the fact that perfect competition guarantees pareto efciency is of littlemoral importance, rst because pareto efciency is not a big deal, morallyspeaking. inefciency means that certain kinds of attractive improvementscould in principle be made. efciency means that those sorts of improve- ments are not to be had, but nothing more. a second reason why peopleought not to be overly impressed with the rst welfare theorem is that perfectcompetition is impossible. a third reason is that, as lipsey and lancaster established ( 1956 ), the efciency of perfect competition does not justify attempts to eliminate particular impediments to actual competition. (t ograsp the intuition, consider a rough example: the distortions present in an economy in which half the output was in monopolized industries might belessened by monopolizing the other half, even though making all industriescompetitive would be still better.) unless one were to achieve perfect com- petition, which is impossible, eliminating market imperfections may well diminish rather than improve efciency. there is no way to know, ap riori. similar considerations undermine the signicance of the second welfare theorem. even if massive initial redistribution were politically feasible, per-fect competition remains impossible, and eliminating market imperfections does not necessarily improve efciency. we do not mean to underestimateeither the actual magnitude of inefciencies in the world or the moral impor-tance of avoiding these inefciencies, but the two welfare theorems are ofno help in identifying or eliminating real inefciencies. who cares whetheraperfectly competitive economy, which is not possible, is pareto efcient

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 243 and whether such an impossible economy could, as a consequence of an infeasible initial distribution, also result in an equitable distribution ofincome? mainstream economists care. whether opposed to government inter- vention in the economy or in favor of it, mainstream economists typically treat perfectly competitive equilibrium as a benchmark and a moral ideal. although some economists are opposed to government intervention in theeconomy for nonwelfarist reasons such as concerns about individual free-doms or rights, those who seek to limit the role of government usuallymaintain that freeing the economy from government meddling best approx-imates perfect competition with its pareto efciency. those who, in contrast,favor government intervention in the economy do so because they believethat government can address some of the failures of actual markets, wherethese failures are identied against the id eal standard of perfect competition. defenders of government interference with the market are just as impressedwith the claims of perfect competition as are opponents, and they are both wrong to be so impressed. 7. potential pareto improvements and cost-benet analysis asunjustiable as this fascination with perfect competition may be, it is easy tounderstand, because concern with competitive equilibrium is so central to positive economic theory, and because normative economists would have solittle to say if they conned themselves to endorsing specic pareto improve-ments. the only other path has been to nd some way of comparing policieswhen none is pareto superior to the others. kaldor ( 1939 )and hicks ( 1939 ) had the following thought: consider two economic outcomes or states ofaffairs xand y.there are many different moral comparisons people might make of them. one morally signicant difference between xand ymay be distributional, as in the case of the ten units of bread. another way thateconomic states of affairs may differ is in the quantity of economic benetstobe distributed that is, in their capacity to satisfy preferences. suppose that in x,the status quo, four units of bread go to aand six units go to b. anew policy is considered that would increase bread supply and result in agetting seven units of bread and bgetting ve. call the alternative y.y is not a pareto improvement over x,because bgets fewer units of bread, but there is, kaldor and hicks argue, an unambiguous increase in economicbenets and economic efciency. with the new policy, the capacity of theeconomy to satisfy preferences has increased. the pie has grown larger.that increase does not show up as a pareto improvement, because there is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 244 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson also change in distribution to bsdisadvantage. owing to the way the pie has been cut, bsportion diminishes. in kaldor and hickss view, economists are in no position to pass moral judgments on economic distribution, but they do not have to. the increase in efciency, the purely economic benet,is independent of distribution. economists should be concerned to enlargethe pie, and they should leave its division to politicians and moralists. thereis a separate dimension of purely economic evaluation. according to kaldor and hicks, xhas a greater capacity to satisfy pref- erences than yif and only if xis a potential pareto improvement over y.xis a potential pareto improvement over yif there is some (not nec- essarily feasible) way of redistributing the goods available in xthat makes xan actual pareto improvement over y.so,in the simple bread exam- ple, the distribution of seven units to aand ve to bis a potential pareto improvement over the distribution of four units to aand six to b,because it would be possible to redistribute the twelve units so as to achieve an actual paretoimprovement. (for example, both aand bcould receive six units of bread.) one also can describe a potential pareto improvement in terms of the possibility of compensation: if xis a potential pareto improvement over y,then it is possible in some sense for the winners in a change from ytox tocompensate the losers. whether the winners could compensate the losers is then operationalized in terms of willingness to pay. if the amount thatwinners would be willing to pay to bring about a policy is larger than the amount that losers would need to be compensated to accept the policy, thenthe policy is a potential pareto improvement over the status quo, and thepolicy purportedly brings about a more efcient state of affairs in whichthere is a net benet a greater capacity to satisfy preferences. all thingsconsidered, the policy might be a bad thing, because of its distributional consequences. but the distributional questions are not questions with which economists have any particular expertise. furthermore, if the problems aredistributional, then so are the solutions. the judgment concerning economicefciency stands. there are many problems with this argument, and many of these prob- lems are inherited by the practical implementation of this line of thoughtin contemporary cost-benet analysis. the central problem is that the sep-aration that kaldor and hicks envisioned between questions concerningefciency and distribution, between the size of the pie and the way it issliced is not in general to be had. kaldor and hickss analysis would work if the utility frontiers were like those depicted in figure 13.1,which represents the case of the loaves of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 245 p su ua bstatus quonew policy (u (5), u (7))a b (u (6), u (4)) a ba's preference -- b's preference -- pareto superior distributions figure 13.1. pareto superiority. bread on the unrealistic assumption that aandbsutilities are proportional totheir bread consumption. the distribution resulting from the new policy, the point p,isnot a pareto improvement over the status quo distribution s, as bs utility is lower. but one can move along the frontier made possible by the new policy to a region of pareto superior distributions. this is a special case. there is no reason to rule out the situation depicted in figure 13.2,which is borrowed from samuelson ( 1950 ). the utilities of two representative individuals rachel (r) and peter (p) are measured along t1 t2s' z'z sur up figure 13.2. the failure of asymmetry.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 246 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson the two axes, and the two curves represent the possible utility combinations depending on whether technology t 1or technology t 2is employed. t ech- nology 1, which is the status quo (perhaps in 1920), involves a rail transportsystem with few goods or people carried on highways. t echnology 2 involvesan extensive road system like the one currently in use in the united states.the utility status quo in 1920 is, let us suppose, point s,and the result of changing to an automobile technology will, other things being equal, result in the utilities for rachel and peter represented by point z.zis not a pareto improvement over s,because peter is worse off, but zis a potential pareto improvement over s,because rachel can pay compensation to peter and the economy can move along the t 2curve to z.however, one cannot con- clude, as kaldor and hicks hoped, that t 2is more efcient than t 1,orthat it involves a greater capacity to satisfy preferences, a larger real income, abigger pie, because shere is also a potential pareto improvement over z one can move from salong the t 1curve to s,w h i c hi sa na c t u a lp a r e t o improvement over z. injust the same way, the efciency of relocating polluting industries in ldcs that summers points to depends in large part on the lopsided dis-tribution of wealth. indeed one can interpret r and p as standing for rich and poor and take t 2tobe the current technology (with pollut- ing industries located in rich countries), zthe current level of preference satisfaction for representative members of rich and poor countries, and s the pareto improvement that relocating the polluting industries will makepossible. although sis a pareto improvement over z,itcannot be compared toz,which could be achieved by redistribution without shifting polluting industries. only in the case in which one utility possibility curve is inside ofthe other can one make a pure efciency comparison that does not takeaparticular distribution for granted. what makes sap a r e t oimprovement over zis not a larger pie. sis a pareto improvement over zbecause of where s andzsit on their respective frontiers. the greater efciency of sdepends on the distribution as well as the frontiers. endorsing pareto improvementsis not neutral with respect to distributional questions. inaddition to the failure of the strategy of separating a specically eco- nomic dimension of evaluation concern ed exclusively with efciency, let us briey mention ve other ethical problems with cost-benet analysis. first,its appraisals are based on a comparison of willingness-to-pay rather thanof welfare gains or losses of different people. although willingness-to-payobviously has something to do with welfare and preference, it also dependson expectations concerning what it is appropriate to purchase and for what price. willingness to pay, like the amount of money one would require in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 247 order to consent to an unwanted change, obviously also depends on wealth. because preferences in cost-benet analysis are weighted with dollars, andthe poor have fewer of these, their preferences count for less (baker 1975 ). second, cost-benet analysis, like other methods of evaluation employ- ing the pareto criteria, ignores questions of justice, even though, unlike theendorsement of pareto improvements, it supports policies that make somepeople worse off. the compensation considered is only hypothetical. somepeople win and some lose. questions of fairness are obviously pressing insuch circumstances. if each policy had different winners and losers so thatin the long run everyone were a winner as often as he or she were a loser,the unfairness of individual policies taken separately might wash out. butthe bias built into cost-benet analysis against the preferences of the poorsuggests that the unfairness will not wash out. exactly those people whompolicy makers should be most concerned to protect are those who are mostlikely to be harmed. proponents have consequently explored ways of modi-fying cost-benet analysis to compensate for possible injustices (harberger1978 ;little 1957 ), but, in practice, wealth adjustments are seldom made. athird objection to cost-benet analysis is that social policy should not be based on the unreective and unargued preferences that cost-benetanalysts infer from peoples economic choices. some preferences, such aspreferences for communities free of urban sprawl, are hard to signal whenone buys groceries, cars or even homes. furthermore, peoples preferencesfor public goods of all sorts respond to arguments and may be different after public debate than they were before. substituting cost-benet analysis forpublic deliberation means that peoples preferences are never subjected tosuch challenges. preferences that are based on mistaken beliefs wind up withthe same inuence on social policy as well-considered and well-informedpreferences. finally, uncertainty coupled with the fact that preferences and willing- ness to pay typically depend on beliefs create serious problems. when peoplehave mistaken beliefs about the constitution of the exhaust from the fac-torydown the road, their willingness to pay to avoid breathing it will be an unreliable indicator of their true preferences, let alone the welfare con-sequences of the exhaust. people often do not know the consequences ofalternatives and hence which alternative they would prefer if they did knowthe consequences. the problems of uncertainty are usually nessed by sup-posing that individuals possess subjective probability distributions over allthe possible outcomes, but to suppose this involves extreme idealization;and there is little justication for respec ting preferences based on largely ctitious probability distributions.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 248 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson these problems do not imply that cost-benet analysis is worthless or that it should be abandoned. but they do imply that it must be used with a great deal of circumspection. one also must abandon the hope of extracting apurely economic realm of evaluation, in which moral questions about distribution can be set aside. information concerning willingness to paycan still help to decide what to do, but it is no more than one input intothe messy business of policy making, rather than purportedly capturing adistribution-free notion of economic benet. itis still possible to make some reasonable guesses concerning the welfare consequences of alternative policies, and we believe that economists have an important role to play. but it is easy now to see both how much harmeconomists can do and the challenges that must be met in order for themtodo good. in particular, economists need to surrender the view that they can focus on welfare alone and that preferences are always a reliable guidetowelfare. 8. conclusions inmaking cautious use of the ndings of a cost-benet analysis, policy makers need to ask how dependent the net benets are on the existingdistribution of income and wealth and whether greater benets might beobtained through redistribution. recall larry summerss memorandum. itis plausible that redistributing income from rich nations to poor nationswould increase overall well-being much more than redistributing pollution. andonce one begins thinking of overall well-being, one has left behind cost-benet analysis and the futile hope that economic questions can be sharply separated from distributional questions. the notion that welfareeconomists can offer a precise economic analysis to which vague moralconcerns about justice or rights can be counterpoised is a pernicious c- tion. the evaluation given by the market or simulated by welfare economistsdepends on a highly contestable theory of welfare and is no more solid orobjective than other sorts of moral appraisals. 7there are no short cuts to policy appraisal, and appraisals that ignore the full range of moral consid-erations bearing on economic policy are dangerous. notes 1.otherwise, summerss claim that these objections could be turned around and used more or less effectively against every bank proposal for liberalisation should lead him to criticize the world banks proposals for liberalisation rather than tomake an additional one!

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 249 2.these will be explained in section 7 of this chapter. 3.summerss other argument does not have this aw. in some cases, a given expo- sure to a pollutant will in fact diminish the health and welfare of people in ldcs less than it will diminish the health and welfare of people in rich countries. if,touse summerss own example, a pollutant increases the risk of prostate cancer, which is a disease mainly of elderly men, then the pollutant will not increase risk of suffering or death as much, if few men live long enough to contract the disease.furthermore, for purely medical reasons, a given dose of a particular pollutant may have fewer negative health consequences if the total amount of pollution issmall, than if it is large. although these differential effects might not exist if therewerenot other inequalities between dev eloping nations and ldcs, claiming that such pollution has a lower cost in ldcs does not involve valuing the lives ofthose who live in ldcs less. the weight of these arguments can be questioned,however, as the consequences of increased pollution may lie many years in thefuture, when the differences in longevity and levels of background pollution onwhich the differences in effect depend may have disappeared. furthermore, the interaction between pollution effects and the generally worse health status ofpeople in ldcs might render some of the effects of pollutants more rather than less serious. the numbers of people affected by pollution also must be consid-ered. adding up all these factors, there seems to be no justied presumptionthat transfers of pollution toward poor countries is morally desirable. it is thusquestionable whether thoughtful people should or would be willing to transferpollution from developed to developing countries. one further problem alsoshould be mentioned. the idea of compensating a country is a cheat: to claimthat everyone would be willing to transfer pollution illegitimately treats coun-tries as if they were individuals. even in its own terms the argument does not go through, because the compensation may fail to reach the individuals who areharmed by the pollution. 4.anextreme example of this is the drug eornithine, which is a highly effective miracle cure for sleeping sickness. until 1999, the drug was produced by a u.s. subsidiary of the aventis company, but when eornithine proved ineffective against cancer (its intended target), aventis stopped making the drug and gavethe production license to the world health organization (who). only in early2001, when stocks of the drug were almost exhausted, was the who able to nddrug companies to manufacture it and then only because the companies hopedtomake prots from marketing eornithine in developed countries as a cream that removes facial hair. because the victims of sleeping sickness are so poor, thesmall amount they are able to pay for eornithine grossly understates its socialvalue as a cure for sleeping sickness. 5.although recently there has been a urry of interest in hedonist views. see kah-neman 2000 ,kahneman and krueger 2006 ,and layard 2005 . 6.moreprecisely, these cardinal utility functions are provably unique up to a positive afne transformation. this means that if one cardinally signicant utilityfunction urepresents my preferences, then another cardinally signicant utility function uwill repr esent my preferences if and only if u au b,w h e r e ais any positive real number and bis any real number.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 250 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson 7.provided that one takes account of distributional presuppositions and conse- quences and recognizes that cost-benet analysis is a source of data rather thananswers, cost-benet analysis can provide useful inputs into economic decisionmaking. of course, it is subject to abuse and misinterpretation, and the tech-niques employed to correct for distributional effects and to impute willingnesstopay information from market data are certainly imperfect. but, provided that wedont forget that there are other things that matter besides welfare (let alone willingness to pay), what do we have that is less biased, more accurate, or that provides a better insight into what will serve peoples material interests? refere nces ayogu, melvin and don ross. 2005. development dilemmas: the methods and political ethics of growth policy .l o n d o n :r o utledge. baker, c. 1975. the ideology of the economic analysis of law. philosophy and public affairs 5: 348. broome, john. 1991. utility. economics and philosophy 7: 112. harberger, arnold. 1978. on the use of distributional weights in social cost-benet analysis. journal of political economy 86: s87s120. hausman, daniel. 1995. the impossibility of interpersonal utility comparisons. mind 104: 47390. hausman, daniel and michael mcpherson. 1996. economic analysis and moral philoso- phy.cambridge: cambridge university press. .2006. economic analysis, moral philosophy and public policy .cambridge: cam- bridge university press. hicks, john. 1939. the foundations of welfare economics. economic journal 49: 696 712. kahneman, daniel. 2000. experienced utility and objective happiness: a moment- based approach. pp. 673692 of d. kahneman and a. tversky (eds.) choices, values and frames .new y ork: cambridge university press. kahneman, daniel and alan krueger. 2006. developments in the measurement of subj ective well-being. journal of economic perspectives 20: 324. kaldor, nicholas. 1939. welfare propositions of economics and interpersonal com- parisons of utility. economic journal 49: 54952. layard, richard. 2005. happiness: lessons from a new science .new y ork: penguin. lipsey, richard and kelvin lancaster. 1956. the general theory of the second best. reviewofeconomic studies 24: 1131. little, ian. 1957. acritique of welfare economics .2nd ed. oxford: oxford university press. mill, j ohn stuart. on liberty .(1859). ed.: currin v . shields. new y ork: macmillan, 1985. .utilitarianism (1863). rpt. in marshall cohen, ed. the philosophy of john stuart mill.new y ork: modern library, 1961, pp. 32198. samuelson, paul. 1950. evaluation of real national income. oxford economic papers new s eries 2: 129.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 fourteen whyiscost-benet analysis so controversial? robert h. frank robert h. frank (1945 ) holds a b.s. in math from georgia institute of t echnology and an m.a. in statistics and a ph.d. in economics from university of california,berkeley. since serving as a peace corps volunteer in nepal, he has been an economicsprofessor at cornell university. his economic scene column appears monthly inthenewyork times .his work at the intersection of economics and ethics has focused on moral emotions and concerns about relative position. overview the cost-benet principle says we should take those actions, and only those actions, whose benets exceed their costs. for many, this principles com-monsensical ring makes it hard to imagine how anyone could disagree. y etcritics of cost-benet analysis are both numerous and outspoken. many ofthem argue that cost-benet analysis is unacceptable as a matter of princi-ple. i begin by noting why many nd this argument largely unpersuasive. ithen examine several conventions adopted by cost-benet analysts that doappear to yield misleading prescriptions. finally, i consider the possibilitythat the cost-benet principle may itself suggest why we might not alwayswant to employ cost-benet analysis as the explicit rationale for our actions. the incommensurability problem the cost-benet principle says we should install a guardrail on a dangerousstretch of mountain road if the dollar cost of doing so is less than the implicit henrietta johnson louis professor of management and professor of economics, cornell uni- versity, johnson graduate school of management. this paper was prepared for presentation at the university of chicago law school conference cost-benet analysis, september 1718,1999. i thank william schulze for helpful discussions. journal of legal studies ,vol. 29 (2000): 91330. copyright c circlecopyrt2000 by the university of chicago. reproduced by permission of the university of chicago press. 251

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 252 robert h. frank dollar value of the injuries, deaths, and property damage thus prevented. manycritics respond that placing a dollar value on human life and suffering is morally illegitimate.1 the apparent implication is that we should install the guardrail no matter how much it costs or no matter how little it affects the risk of death andinjury. given that we live in a world of scarcity, however, this position is difcult todefend. after all, money spent on a guardrail could be used to purchase other things we value, including things that enhance health and safety inother domains. since we have only so much to spend, why should we install aguardrail if the same money spent on, say, better weather forecasting wouldprevent even more deaths and injuries? moregenerally, critics object to the cost-benet frameworks use of a monetary metric to place the pros and cons of an action on a commonfooting. they complain, for example, that when a power plant pollutesthe air, our gains from the cheap power thus obtained simply cannot becompared with the pristine view of the grand canyon we sacrice. even the most ardent proponents of cost-benet analysis concede that comparing disparate categories is extremely difcult in practice. but many critics insist that such comparisons cannot be made even in principle. intheir view, the problem is not that we do not know how big a reduction inenergy costs would be required to compensate for a given reduction in airquality. rather, it is that the two categ ories are simply incommensurable. this view has troubling implications. in the eyes of the cost-benet ana- lyst, any action even one whose costs and benets are hard to compare becomes irresistibly attractive if its benets are sufciently large and its costsare sufciently small. indeed, few people would oppose a new technologythat would reduce the cost of power by half if its only negative effect weretodegrade our view of the grand canyon for just one 15-second interval each decade. 2bythe same token, no one would favor adoption of a tech- nology that produced only a negligible reduction in the cost of power atthe expense of a dark cloud that continuously shielded north america fromthe rays of the sun. we live in a continuous world. if the rst technology isclearly acceptable, and the second c learly unacceptable, some intermediate technology is neither better nor worse than the status quo. and we should count any technology that is better than that one as an improvement. scarcity is a simple fact of the human condition. t o have more of one good thing, we must settle for less of another. claiming that different values areincommensurable simply hinders c lear thinking about difcult tradeoffs. notwithstanding their public pronouncements about incommensura- bility, even the ercest critics of cost-benet analysis cannot escape such

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 253 tradeoffs. for example, they do not vacuum their houses several times a day, nor do they get their brakes checked every morning. the reason, presum- ably, is not that clean air and auto safety do not matter, but that they havemore pressing uses of their time. like the rest of us, they are forced to makethe best accommodations they can between competing values. general reservations about consequentialist ethics manycritics of cost-benet analysis fault it for being rooted in utilitarianism or some closely related form of consequentialist ethical theory.3consequen- tialist theories hold that the right course of action is the one that leads tothe best consequences, where consequences under the utilitarian variantmeans highest total utility. critics often attack consequentialism by citingexamples in which its purported conclusions clash with the readers ethical intuitions. one popular example invokes the utility monster, someonewho transforms resources into utility far more efciently than anyone else.critics argue that since utilitarianism says the best outcome is to give all resources to the utility monster, and since we know this to be an absurd con- clusion, we must reject the ethical theory upon which cost-benet analysisrests. consequentialist moral philosophers have attempted to show that their theories, properly construed, do not imply the conclusions suggested bysuch examples. 4butevenifthese disputes are never fully resolved, we may note that the theories favored by the rival camps reach remarkably similardecisions regarding a broad range of ethical questions. as a practical matter,then, the mere fact that cost-benet analysis is closely identied with con-sequentialist ethical theories would not seem to imply that its prescriptionsare systematically misleading. discounting the future astraditionally implemented, cost-bene tanalysis attempts to put all rel- evant costs and benets on a common temporal footing. a discount rate is chosen, which is then used to compute all relevant future costs and ben-ets in present-value terms. most commonly, the discount rate used forpresent-value calculations is an interest rate taken from nancial markets. though some critics complain about this practice, use of a market inter- est rate to discount future monetary costs and benets commands broadapproval. after all, if the annual interest rate on nancial deposits is 7 per-cent, one can cover a 1,000 cost 10 years hence by depositing only 500 today.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 254 robert h. frank there is less widespread agreement about using a market interest rate to discount future subjective utility. as stanley jevons argued, for example, t o secure a maximum benet in life, all future pleasures or pains, should actupon us with the same force as if they were present, allowance being madefor their uncertainty ...butnohuman mind is constituted in this perfect way: a future feeling is always less inuential than a present one. 5 on this view, if failure to adopt more stringent air quality standards today means that respiratory illnesses will be more common a generation from now, those illnesses should receive roughly the same weight as if theyweretooccur today. having been born later should not mean that ones enjoyment and suffering receive less weight in important policy decisions.of course, a complete cost-benet calculation would also want to makeallowance for possible improvements in medical technology that wouldmake the consequences of a given illness less severe in the future. whatever the ultimate merits of this position, it does not argue against the use of cost-benet analysis as a matter of principle. if analysts agreethat future experiences should receive roughly the same weight as currentones, the costs and benets associated with any policy change can simply becalculated on that basis. distributional issues distributional issues have long been a favorite target of critics of cost-benetanalysis. their objection, in a nutshell, is that because willingness to pay isbased on income, cost-benet analysis assigns unjustiably large decisionweight to high-income persons. implicit in this objection is the view that everyones preferences regarding policy decisions should receive the same weig ht, irrespective of income. critics presumably have the interests of the poor in mind when they press this objection. y et it is not clear that the poor themselves would want policydecisions to be made on some basis other than willingness to pay. consider,for example, a community consisting of three voters one rich, the othertwo poor. up for decision is a proposal to switch the local public radiostation from an all-music format to an all-talk format. the rich voter wouldbe willing to pay 1,000 to see this change enacted, while the poor voterswould be willing to pay 100 each to prevent it. if each voters interests are weig hted equally, the switch will not be adopted. y et, in cost-benet terms, failure to switch results in a net loss of 800. under the circumstances, little ingenuity is required to design a pro- posal that would command unanimous support. the switch could be made

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 255 conditional, for example, on the rich voter making an additional 500 con- tribution to the public treasury, which could then be used to reduce the taxes of each poor voter by 250. critics may respond that although such transfers would be ne in prin- ciple, the poor lack the political muscle to assure they are carried out. in animperfect world, they argue, we get better results by resolving such issueson a one-person, one-vote basis. butthis response simply will not do. if the poor lack the political power tobargain for compensation in retur nfor supporting a policy that harms them, what gives them the power to block that policy in the rst place?butifthey have that power, they necessarily have the power to bargain for compensation. after all, any policy that passes the cost-benet test butcreates net losses for the poor can be transformed into a pareto improvementbysimply making the tax system more progressive. critics of cost-benet analysis are correct that using unweighted willingness-to-pay measures virtually assures a mix of public programs that are slanted in favor of the preferences of high-income persons. but ratherthan abandon cost-benet analysis, we have a better alternative. we canemploy unweighted willingness-to-pay measures without apology, and usethe welfare and tax system to compensate low-income families ex ante forthe resulting injury. the compensation need not indeed cannot occur onacase-by-case basis. rather, low-income persons could simply be granted the welfare and tax breaks required by distributive justice, plus additionalconcessions reecting their expected loss from the implementation of cost- benet analysis using unweighted willingness-to-pay measures. mypoint in offering this defense of standard cost-benet analysis is not that granting additional political power to the poor would be a bad idea.rather, it is that abandoning cost-benet analysis is a gratuitously wastefulway of trying to achieve that goal. rich and poor alike have an interest inmaking the economic pie as large as possible. any policy that passes thecost-benet test makes the economic pie larger. and when the pie is larger, everyone can have a larger slice. measurement problems todiscover whether an action satises the cost-benet test, we must come up with concrete measures of its costs and benets. notwithstanding the log-ical difculties raised by claims of incommensurability, this much is clear:constructing plausible measures of the costs and benets of specic actions is often very difcult. in practice, analysts try to estimate costs and benets

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 256 robert h. frank either by using survey methods or by drawing inferences from market behav- ior. both approaches, however, are fraught with difculty. survey methods how muc hi sthe preservation of a virgin redwood forest worth? proponents of the contingent-valuation method generate estimates by asking people howmuchthey would be willing to pay to see the forest preserved. responses in such surveys are problematic for several reasons. one difculty is that the valuations are often implausibly large. for exam- ple, if the amount someone would pay to prevent a specic stretch of coastlinefrom being fouled by an oil spill were applied to all coastlines worldwide,the resulting sum would typically far exceed his total wealth. 6responses in contingent-valuation surveys are also hig hly sensitive to how questions are phrased and to the format provided for responses.7 butperhaps the most troubling feature of contingent-valuation surveys is that respondents are often willing to pay more, by several orders of mag-nitude, to prevent a harmful effect than to undo a harmful effect that hasalready occurred. richard thaler coined the term loss aversion to describethis tendency. 8loss aversion means not just that the pain of losing a given amount is larger, for most of us, than the pleasure from gaining that sameamount. it is much larger. thaler illustrates the asymmetry by asking students to consider the fol- lowing hypothetical questions: 1. by attending class today, you have been exposed to a rare, fatal disease. the probability that you have the disease is one in a thousand. if youhave the disease you will die a quick and painless death in one week.there is a cure for the disease that always works, but it has to be takennow. we do not know how much it will cost. y ou must say now themost you would be willing to pay for this cure. if the cure ends upcosting more you wont get it. if it costs less, you will pay the stated price, not the maximum you stated. how much will you pay? 2. we are conducting experiments on the same disease for which we need subjects. a subject will just have to expose him or herself to the diseaseand risk a one-in-a-thousand chance of death. what is the minimumfee you would accept to become such a subject? 9 in each scenario, respondents are asked, in effect, how much they value aone in 1,000 reduction in the probability of death. but whereas the rst scenario asks how much they would pay to eliminate a risk of death to which

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 257 they have already been exposed, the second asks them how much they would have to be paid before exposing themselves to a similar risk voluntarily.the median responses were approximately 800 for the rst question and 100,000 for the second. 10similar disparities between willingness to pay and willingness to accept are observed in contingent-valuation surveys thatpose environmental questions. 11disparities in other domains are typically smaller, though few surveys nd willingness-to-pay values that are morethan half as large as the corresponding values for willingness to accept. 12 these disparities, needless to say, pose formidable hurdles for analysts whoemploy contingent-valuation methods. hedonic methods these and other problems inherent in survey methods have led many ana-lysts to favor hedonic pricing models, which attempt to infer valuationsfrom observable market behavior. in typical applications, analysts estimatethe value of noise reduction by examining how residential housing pricesvary with ambient noise levels, or the value of safety by examining howwages vary with workplace injury levels. 13 hedonic pricing models assume that the wage-safety gradient tells us how muchworkers value safety. is this a tenable assumption? the argument in support of it is a simple application of invisible-hand theory. if an amenity say, a guardrail on a lathe costs 50 per month to install and maintain,and if workers value it at 100 per month, then rms that do not installone risk losing valued employees to a competitor who does. after all, if acompetitor were to pay a worker 60 per month less than he earns from his current employer, it could cover the cost of the safety device with 10 tospare, while providing an overall compensation package that is 40 permonth more attractive than his current employers. tothis argument, critics respond that labor markets are not workably competitive in practice. incomplete information, worker immobility, and other imperfections force workers to a ccept whatever conditions employers offer. but even if a rm were the only employer in a labor market, it wouldstill have a clear incentive to install a 50 safety device that is worth 100 tothe worker. failure to do so would leave cash on the table. other critics suggest that workers often do not know about the safety devices they lack. but this claim is also troubling because rms would havestrong incentives to call these devices to workers attention. after all, boththe rm and its workers come out ahead when a cost-effective safety deviceis adopted.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 258 robert h. frank with respect to the charge that labor markets are not effectively com- petitive, critics of hedonic pricing models have failed to meet the burden of proof. worker mobility between rms is high, as is entry by new rmsinto existing markets, and cartel agreements have always been notoriouslyunstable. information is never perfect, but if a new employer in town isoffering a better deal, word sooner or later gets around. if,despite these checks, some rms still managed to exploit their workers bypaying less than a competitive wage, we should expect these rms to have relatively high prots. in fact, however, we observe just the oppositecorrelation. y ear in and year out, the rms paying the highest wages are most protable. 14 buteveniflabor markets are workably competitive, the same theory of revealed preference that makes hedonic models so attractive also sounds acautionary note. it calls our attention to a related form of behavioral evidence, namely, the laws we choose to adopt. scholars in the law and economics movement have long argued that laws tend to evolve in waysthat maximize wealth. 15this characterization presumably also applies to laws regulating health and safety in the workplace, which by now have beenenacted by virtually all industrial democracies. these laws pose a challenge tothe hedonic pricing models assumption that safety risks are fully reected in compensating wage differentials. if this assumption were correct, safetyregulations would entail costs that exceed their benets and therefore should not have been enacted in the rst place. but although these regulations haveoften been criticized on practical grounds, they appear in no imminentpolitical danger. does the political success of safety regulation suggest that hedonic pricing models are misleading? i believe it does, but not for the reasons usually given.inwhat follows i construct an example to illustrate an alternative rationale for safety regulation, one that is indep endent of market power and imperfect information. positional concerns and revealed preference consider a hypothetical community with only two members, sherwin and gary. each gets satisfaction from three things from his income, from hissafety on the job, and from his position on the economic ladder. each mustchoose between two jobs a safe job that pays 300 per week and a risky job that pays 350 per week. the value of safety to each is 100 per week,and each evaluates relative income as follows: having more income thanhis neighbor provides the equivalent of 100 per week worth of additional

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 259 sherwin safe job 300 week safe job 300 week 400 week each 350 week each 300 week for gary 450 week for sherwin 450 week for gary 300 week for sherwinunsafe job 350 weekunsafe job 350 week gary figure 14.1. the effect of concerns about relative income on worker choices regarding safety. satisfaction; having less income than his neighbor means the equivalent of a 100 per week reduction in satisfaction; and having the same income as his neighbor means no change in the underlying level of satisfaction. willsherwin and gary choose optimally between the two jobs? ifweviewed each persons decision in isolation, the uniquely correct choice would be the safe job. although it pays 50 per week less than the risky job, the extra safety it provides is worth 100 per week. so if we abstract from the issue of concern about relative income, the value of the safe job is 400 per week (its 300 salary plus 100 worth of safety), which is 50 perweek more than the 350 value of the risky job. once we incorporate concerns about relative income, however, the deci- sion logic changes in a fundamental way. now the attractiveness of eachchoice depends on the job chosen by the other. the four possible combi- nations of choices and the corresponding levels of satisfaction are shown infigure 14.1. suppose, for example, that gary chooses the safe job. if sherwin then chooses the unsafe job, he ends up with total satisfaction worth 450 350 in salary plus 100 from having more income than gary. gary, forhis part, ends up with only 300 worth of total satisfaction 300 in salaryplus 100 from safety minus 100 from having lower income than sherwin.alternatively, suppose gary chooses the unsafe job. then sherwin againdoes better to accept the unsafe job, for by so doing he gets 350 worth ofsatisfaction rather than only 300. since the payoff matrix is symmetric, eachplayers dominant strategy is to choose the unsafe job. analysts equippedwith the hedonic pricing model will conclude that these workers must value the extra safety at less than 50 per week.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 260 robert h. frank butthis inference is clearly wrong. note that if each chooses a safe job, each will get 400 worth of total satisfaction 300 of income, 100 worth of satisfaction from safety, and zero satisfaction from relative position. if eachhad instead chosen the unsafe job, each would have had 350 of income,zerosatisfaction from safety, and each would again have had the same level of income, so again zero satisfaction from relative position. if we comparethe upper-left cell of figure 14.1 tothe lower-right cell, then, we can say unequivocally that sherwin and gary would be happier if each took a safejob at lower income than if each chose an unsafe job with more income. byassumption, the extra safety is worth more than its cost. the discrepancy arises because the job safety choice confronts workers with a prisoners dilemma. if they could choose collectively, they would pick the safe job, an outcome they prefer to what happens when they chooseindependently. on this interpretation, safety regulation is attractive not because it prevents exploitation, but because it mitigates the consequencesof consumption externalities. manymodern disciples of adam smith appear reluctant to introduce concerns about relative position into normative economic models. y et as smith himself recognized, such concerns are a basic component of human nature: consumable commodities are either necessaries or luxuries. by necessaries i under- stand not only the commodities which are indisp ensably necessary for the support of life, but whatever the custom of the country renders it indecent for creditable people, even of the lowest order, to be without. a linen shirt, for example, is, strictlyspeaking, not a necessary of life. the greeks and romans lived, i suppose, very com-fortably though they had no linen. but in the present times, through the greater partof europe, a creditable day-labourer would be ashamed to appear in public withoutalinen shirt, the want of which would be supposed to denote that disgraceful degree of poverty which, it is presumed, nobody can well fall into without extreme badconduct. custom, in the same manner, has rendered leather shoes a necessary of life in england. the poorest creditable person of either sex would be ashamed to appearin public without them. 16 assmith clearly understood, concerns about relative income need not entail a desire to have more or better goods than ones neighbors. people with low relative income experience not just psychological discomfort but alsomore tangible economic costs. 17aresident of a remote indian mountain village has no need for a car, but a resident of los angeles cannot meet even the most minimal demands of social existence without one. a family thatwants to send its children to a good school must buy a house in a good

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 261 school district, yet such houses are often beyond reach for families with low relative income. similarly, if only 10 percent of houses have views andeverybody car es equally strongly about having a view, then only people in the top 10 percent of the income distribution will get one. measuring the social value of a consumption good by summing what individuals spend on it is similar to measuring the social value of militaryarmaments by summing the amounts that individual nations spend on them.both measurements are problematic because they ignore the inuence ofcontext on demand. consider a simple model in which individuals apportion their income between consumption ( c)and workplace safety ( s)and in which the rep- resentative individuals utility depends not only on her absolute levels of consumption and safety, but also on her relative consumption. for exam- ple, suppose the ith individuals utility is given by 18 ui ui[ci,si,r(ci)], (14.1) where r(ci)denotes her rank in the consumption distribution, 0 r(ci) 1. if f(c)isthe density function for the observed values of consumption in the population, then r(ci) integraldisplayci 0f(c)dc. letmidenote the individuals income, pcthe price of the consumption good, andpsthe price of safety. if the individual takes f(c)asgiven, the rst-order condition for maximum utility is given by ui1 ui2 [ui3f(ci)c] ui2 pc ps, (14.2) where uijdenotes the rst partial derivative of uiwith respect to its jth argument. the second term on the left-hand side of equation (2) reects the fact that when an individual buys an additional unit of the consumption good,her payoff is not just the direct utility it provides but also the utility fromthe implied advance in the consumption ranking. but other individualsalso perceive this second reward, and when all respond to it, the resultingconsumption ranking remains as before. as a result, consumers spend more on consumption and less on safety than is socially optimal. suppose consumers could agree collectively to ignore the effect of indi- vidual consumption changes on consumption rank that is, suppose they

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 262 robert h. frank could agree to assume that r prime(c) f(c) 0. the rst-order condition in equation (2) would then simplify to ui1 ui2 pc ps, (14.3) which is the familiar rst-order condition from models in which consump- tion rank does not matter. suppressing the rank term would lead individualstoconsume less and spend more on safety than before. equation (3), not equation (2), denes the social ly optimal allocation. the driving force behind this market failure is that the utility from con- sumption is more context dependent than the utility from safety. if utilityhad been equally context dependent for each good, there would have beenno distortion. isthe extent to which satisfaction depends on context different in different domains? sara solnick and david hemenway recently conducted a surveyof graduate students in the public health program at harvard university inan attempt to answer this question. 19they began by asking each subject to choose between the following hypothetical worlds: a: y ou earn 50,000 a year, others earn 25,000;b: y ou earn 100,000 a year, others earn 200,000. fifty-six percent of subjects chose the rst world. solnick and hemenwaythen asked each subject to choose between worlds in which their relativeand absolute income levels were the same, but their relative and absolutevacation times differed: c: y ou have 2 weeks of vacation each year, others have 1 week;d: y ou have 4 weeks of vacation each year, others have 8 weeks. this time only 20 percent chose the rst world, less than half as many as in therst question. on its face, this suggests that satisfaction from consumptionis more strongly context dependent than satisfaction from vacation time. other important consumption categories also appear to be less sensitive than material goods consumption to interpersonal comparisons. considertrafc congestion, whose adverse effects on health and psychological well- being are similar to those of prolonged exposure to loud, unpredictablenoise. 20the effect of such noise on subjects in the laboratory occurs inde- pendently of the amount of noise to which other subjects are exposed,suggesting that the demand for goods is more context sensitive than thedemand for such environmental amenities as freedom from noise and traf-c congestion.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 263 interpersonal comparisons also appear relatively unimportant for sav- ings, at least in the short run. thus, whereas most of us know what kinds of houses our friends live in and what kinds of cars they drive, we are much lesslikely to know how large their savings accounts are. but even if everyonessavings balance were on public display, at least some important individualrewards from current consumption would still depend more on context than those from saving. many parents, for example, might gladly settle foradiminished standard of living in retirement if by saving less they could meet the payments on a house in a better school district. 21andthe same incentives would lead many parents to accept less safe, more regimented,but better paying, jobs. as before, however, the positional gains enjoyed byfamilies that make such choices are offset by the corresponding positionallosses experienced by other families. howmight a cost-benet analyst adjust conventional estimates to coun- teract the biases introduced by concerns about relative consumption? one simple method would make use of surveys in which subjects are period-ically asked to report how much additional income a family would needtomaintain a constant level of subjective well-being in the face of a rise in the incomes of others. using data collected in several european coun-tries, b. m. s. van praag and arie kapteyn estimate an elasticity of roughly 0.6 that is, that a family would need about a 6 percent increase in its realincome to compensate for a 10 percent increase in the incomes of all othersin the community. 22ifwetake this estimate at face value for illustrative purposes, we can employ it to construct a simple multiplier for adjustingwillingness-to-pay values generated by hedonic pricing models. suppose, for example, that a study in which wages were regressed on mortality rates in the workplace found that individual workers are willingtogiveup 2 percent of their incomes each year in exchange for a one in 1,000 reduction in the probability of dying in a workplace accident. this estimate tells us that a worker earning 50,000 per year would be would be willing topay 1,000 per year for the additional safety, even though the expendi- ture would reduce his relative consumption by 2 percent. the kapteynvanpraag estimate suggests that this worker would be willing to pay roughly 600 more for the same increment in safety if he could be assured that hisrelative income would be unaffected by the expenditure as would be the case, for example, if everyone else made similar expenditures on safety. anadjustment based on the van praagkapteyn survey data would thus call an upward revision by 60 percent in the willingness-to-pay valuesinferred from hedonic pricing models. it would be easy to quarrel, of course,with an adjustment procedure based on survey responses like these. other,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 264 robert h. frank more objective procedures might be pursued. elsewhere, for example, i have argued that one can infer the value of relative income by examiningthe relationship between wages, local rank, and productivity among groupsof coworkers. 23inany event, the mere fact that an adjustment procedure may be awed clearly does not imply that it yields worse estimates than wewould get by simply ignoring concerns about relative consumption. insum, if demands for some goods are more highly context sensitive than demands for others, then individual spending decisions cannot beaggregated to estimate social valuations for cost-benet analysis. in general,the sum of individual valuations will be smaller than social value for goodswhose demands are relatively sensitive to context and greater than socialvalue for those whose demands are relatively insensitive to context. andbecause contextual forces inuence demands in powerful ways, 24we have ample reason to be skeptical of hedonic pricing models, even those basedon perfectly competitive markets with complete information. asbefore, however, the implication is not that the cost-benet approach is invalid as a matter of principle. rather, it is that, as currently imple-mented, its prescriptions may be substantially misleading. if so, the remedyis not to abandon cost-benet analysis but to amend conventional estimatingprocedures. impulse-control problems and revealed preference hedonic pricing models also assume that we can infer the values people place on future events by observing the choices they make. on this view, if a personaccepts a one in 10 chance of contracting a serious illness 1 year from now inreturn for a payment of 100 now, then the cost of taking that risk, expressed as a present value, cannot be more than 100. compelling experimentalevidence, however, suggests grounds for skepticism. 25consider, for example, the pair of choices a and b: a: 100 tomorrow versus 105 a week from tomorrow;b: 100 after 52 weeks versus 105 after 53 weeks. the rational choice model on which hedonic pricing models are based saysthat people will discount future costs and benets exponentially at their respective rates of time preference. if so, people should always choose simi- larly under alternatives a and b. since the larger payoff comes a week laterin each case, the ordering of the present values of the two alternatives mustbe the same in both, irrespective of the rate at which people discount. when

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 265 people confront such choices in practice, however, most pick the 100 option in a, whereas most choose the 105 option in b. substantial experimental evidence suggests that individuals discount future costs and benets not exponentially, as assumed by the rational choicemodel, but hyperbolically. 26the psychological impact of a cost or benet falls much more sharply with delay under hyperbolic discounting than underexponential discounting. one consequence is that preference reversals of the kind just discussed are all but inevitable under hyperbolic discounting. theclassic reversal involves choosing the larger, later reward when both alter-natives occur with substantial delay, then switching to the smaller, earlierreward when its delay falls below some threshold. thus, from the pair of alternatives labeled b above, in which both rewards come only after a rela-tively long delay, most subjects chose the larger, later reward, whereas fromthe pair labeled a, most chose the earlier, smaller reward. the tendency to discount future costs and benets hyperbolically gives rise to a variety of familiar impulse-control problems and, in turn, to a vari- ety of strategies for solving them. anticipating their temptation to overeat,people often try to limit the quantities of sweets, salted nuts, and other del-icacies they keep on hand. anticipating their temptation to spend cash intheir checking accounts, people enroll in payroll deduction savings plans.foreseeing the difculty of putting down a good mystery novel in mid- stream, many people know better than to start one on the evening before animportant meeting. reformed smokers seek the company of nonsmokerswhen they rst try to kick the habit and are more likely than others to favorlaws that limit smoking in public places. the recovering alcoholic avoidscocktail lounges. effective as these bootstrap self-control techniques may often be, they are far from perfect. many people continue to express regret about hav-ing overeaten, having drunk and smoked too much, having saved too little,having stayed up too late, having watched too much television, and so on.the exponential discounting model urges us to dismiss these expressions assour grapes. but from the perspective of the hyperbolic discounting model,these same expressions are coherent. in each case, the actor chose an infe-rior option when a better one was available, and later feels genuinely sorry about it. hedonic pricing models use observed choices to infer discount rates, which cost-benet analysts then use to compute present values. t o the extentthat many important intertemporal choices are driven by hyperbolic dis-counting, conventional methods will give too little weight to future costs and benets.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 266 robert h. frank status quo bias opposition to cost-benet analysis may also stem from the fact that the costs of a policy change are often far easier to quantify than its benets, especially in the domains of environmental policy and health and safetypolicy. in both elds, consensus about how to measure benets has provedespecially elusive. the upshot is that policy decisions in these arenas tendtobe driven primarily by cost considerations, resulting in a bias in favor of the status quo. this bias may help explain why advocates of change areoverrepresented among opponents of cost-benet analysis. the fact that benets are more difcult to measure than costs does not provide a compelling reason to abandon cost-benet analysis, just as the factthat costs are easier to forecast than revenues does not provide a compellingreason for rms to abandon prot maximization. in each case, we do better toact on the best information available than to act on no information at all. concluding remarks from the preceding discussion, i draw two conclusions. one is that critics have failed to offer persuasive arguments that cost-benet analysis is objec-tionable as a matter of principle. the other is that many of the methodsused by cost-benet analysts generate systematically biased prescriptions. hedonic pricing methods overstate the value of goods and activities whose demands are relatively context sensitive. and they give too much weight tocurrent costs and benets, too little weight to those that occur in the future.these biases suggest an answer to the question posed in my title. cost-benetanalysis as currently practiced may be controversial simply because it oftengenerates misleading prescriptions. iconclude by considering a more speculative explanation for opposi- tion to cost-benet analysis, one rooted in the distinction between conse-quentialist and deontological moral theories. the deontologists insist thatimmutable moral principles distinguish right conduct from wrong conduct,irrespective of costs and benets. they insist, for example, that stealing iswrong not because it does more harm than good, but simply because it violates the victims rights. the consequentialist resists such absolute pre- scriptions, condent that there could always be some conditions in which the gains from stealing might outweigh its costs. yeteventhe most committed consequentialists seem to recognize that statements like stealing is permissible whenever its benets exceed its costsare not rhetorically effective for teaching their children moral values. indeed,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 267 like the deontologists, most consequentialists teach their children that steal- ing is wrong as a matter of principle. elsewhere i have argued that onceweacknowledge the strategic role of moral emotions in solving commit- ment problems, this posture is coherent, even in purely consequentialistterms. 27 yetapotentially more worrisome aspec tofthe consequentialist position remains, which is that people who view their ethical choices in cost-benet termsmust also construct their own estimates of the relevant costs and benets. the obvious concern is that their estimates will be self-serving.morethan 90 percent of all drivers, for example, feel sure they are better than average. 28morethan 99 percent of high-school students think they are above average in terms of their ability to get along with others.29ninety- four percent of college professors believe they are more productive thantheir average colleague. 30the same forces that make us overestimate our skills can be expected also to distort the estimates that underlie our ethicaljudgments. and if these self-serving calculations lead some to disregard thecommon good, their example will make others more apt to do likewise. needless to say, people may also be prone to self-serving biases in their interpretations of deontological moral principles. in the end, whichapproach entails the greater risk is an empirical question. but it is at leastpossible that consequentialist thinking could lead to a worse outcome onbalance. if this were shown to be so, consequentialists would have little choicebut to endorse the deontological position (much as an atheist might supportfundamentalist religious institutions on the view that threats of hell-re anddamnation are the only practical way to get people to behave themselves).they would have to view cost-benet analysis as correct in principle yet bestavoided in practice. ihasten to add that critics of cost-benet analysis have made no such showing. and unless they do, it seems certain that cost-benet analysis willcontinue to play an important role in decision making. under the circum- stances, both friends and foes of cost-benet analysis have a shared interestin trying to eliminate the biases that distort its prescriptions. notes 1.foranoverview, see robert kuttner, everything for sale (1997). 2.the few who did object would likely invoke a variation of the slippery-slope argument, which holds that allowing even a single small step will lead to aninevitable slide to the bottom. y et we move partway down slippery slopes all thetime, as when we amend the laws of free speech to prohibit people from yellingreinac rowded theater in which there is no re.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 268 robert h. frank 3.see, for example, steven kelman, an ethical critique of cost-benet analysis, 5regulation 33 (1981). 4.see, for example, john jamieson, carswell smart, bernard williams, utilitarianism: for and against (1973). 5.stanley jevons, the theory of political economy 7273 (1941) (1871). 6.see i. ritov daniel kahneman, how people value the environment: attitudes vs. economic values, in psychological approaches to environmental and ethicalissues in management 3351 (m. bazerman et al.eds. 1997); and daniel kahne- man jack knetsch, valuing public goods: the purchase of moral satisfaction,22 j. envtl. econ. mgmt. 57 (1992). 7.william h. desvousges, john w. payne, david a. schkade, how people respond to contingent valuation questions (epa grant no. r824310 final report, april 1998). 8.richard thaler, t oward a positive theory of consumer choice, 1 j. econ. behav. org. 39 (1980). 9.richard thaler, precommitment and the value of a life, in the value of life and safety 17879 (m. w. jones-lee ed. 1982). 10.id.at179. 11.ritov kahneman, supra note 6. 12.rebecc ab o y c e et al ., an experimental examination of intrinsic values as a source of the wta-wtp disparity, 82 am. econ. rev. 1366 (1992). 13.see, for example, richard thaler sherwin rosen, the value of saving a life:evidence from the labor market, in household production and consumption 265 (n. t erlekyj ed. 1976). 14.see lawrence seidman, the return of the prot rate to the wage equation, 61rev.econ. stat. 139 (1979), and numerous studies cited therein. 15.see, for example, richard a. posner, economic analysis of law (5th ed. 1998). 16.adam smith, an inquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations, bk. 5, ch. ii. pt. ii, art. 4 (1952) (1776). 17.on this point, see especially amartya k. sen, the standard of living (1989). 18.foramore detailed discussion of the model that follows, see robert h. frank, the demand for unobservable and other nonpositional goods, 75 am. econ.rev.101 (1985). 19.sara j. solnick david hemenway, is more always better? a survey on posi- tional concerns, 37 j. econ. behav. org. 373 (1998). 20.forasurvey of the relevant studies, see robert h. frank, luxury fever, ch. 6 (1999). 21.some object that a desire for high consumption rank cannot really explain lowsavings rates, since those who save too little now simply consign themselves tohaving low consumption rank in the future. y et, as noted, having lower con-sumption rank in the future may be an acceptable price to pay for the abilityto have high rank with respect to some forms of current consumption. what is more, to the extent that driving the right cars and wearing the right clothesfunction as signals of ability, and thereby help people land better jobs or morelucrative contracts, low savings now may not even entail reduced consump- tion rank in the future. but whereas this may be true from the perspective ofeach individual, it is surely not true for society as a whole. for when all of us

p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 269 spend more to signal our abilities, the relative strength of each signal remains unchanged. 22.b.m. s. van praag arie kapteyn, further evidence on the individual welfare function of income, 4 eur. econ. rev. 33 (1973). 23.robert h. frank, are workers paid their marginal products? 74 am. econ. rev. 549 (1984). 24.see robert h. frank, choosing the right pond (1985); and frank, supra note 20. 25.see, for example, the papers in choice over time (jon elster george loewen- stein eds. 1993). 26.fordetailed summary of the relevant evidence, see george ainslie, picoeco- nomics (1992). 27.see robert h. frank, passions within reason (1988). for a related discussion,see eric a. posner, the strategic basis of unprincipled behavior: a critique ofthe incommensurability thesis, 146 u. pa. l. rev. 1185 (1998). 28.see thomas gilovich, how we know what isnt so (1991). 29.college board, student descriptive questionnaire (197677). 30.p.cross, not can but will college t eaching be improved? new directions higher educ., spring 1977, at 1.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 fifteen capability and well-being amartya sen amartya sen (1933 ) was born and educated in india before completing his doctor- ate in economics at cambridge university. he has taught in india, england, and the united states and is currently the lamont university professor at harvard univer- sity. he is one of the most widely read and inuential living economists. his bookshave been translated into more than thirty languages. in 1998, he was awarded thenobel price in economics for his work on welfare economics, poverty and famines, and human development. he has also made major contributions to contemporarypolitical philosophy. in this essay, he proposes that alternatives be appraised by look-ing to the capabilities they provide for individuals rather than only by individualutilities, incomes, or resources (as in commonly used theories). 1. intr oduction capability is not an awfully attractive word. it has a technocratic sound, and to some it might even suggest the image of nuclear war strategists rub-bing their hands in pleasure over some contingent plan of heroic barbarity.the term is not much redeemed by the historical capability brown praisingparticular pieces of land not human beings on the solid real-estate ground that they had capabilities . perhaps a nicer word could have been chosenwhen some years ago i tried to explore a particular approach to well-beingand advantage in terms of a persons ab ility to do valuable acts or reach valu- able states of being. 1the expression was picked to represent the alternative forhelpful discussions, i am most grateful to g. a. cohen, partha dasgupta, jean dr eze, hilary putnam, ruth anna putnam, martha nussbaum, derek part, john rawls, john roe- mer, and thomas scanlon. pages 3042 and 4653 of the quality of life ,edited by amartya sen and martha nussbaum. published by oxford university press, 1993. copyright c circlecopyrt1993 by the united nations uni- versity. reproduced by permission of the author, the united nations university wider, and oxford university press. with the authors permission, section 9 of the essay is omitted. that section comments on an essay by g. a. cohen that appeared in the same volume. 270

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 271 combinations of things a person is able to do or be the various function- ings he or she can achieve.2 the capability approach to a persons advantage is concerned with eval- uating it in terms of his or her actual ability to achieve various valuable functionings as a part of living. the corresponding approach to social advan-tage for aggregative appraisal as well as for the choice of institutions andpolicy takes the sets of individual capabilities as constituting an indispens-able and central part of the relevant informational base of such evaluation. itdiffers from other approaches using other informational focuses, for exam-ple, personal utility (focusing on pleasures, happiness, or desire fullment),absolute or relative opulence (focusing on commodity bundles, real income,or real wealth), assessments of negative freedoms (focusing on proceduralfullment of libertarian rights and rules of non-interference), comparisonsof means of freedom (e.g. focusing on the holdings of primary goods , as inthe rawlsian theory of justice), and comparisons of resource holdings as abasis of just equality (e.g. as in dworkins criterion of equality of resources). different aspects of the capability approach have been discussed, exten- ded, used, or criticized by several authors, and as a result the advantagesand difculties of the approach have become more transparent. 3there is, however, a need for a clearer and more connected account of the wholeapproach, particularly in view of some interpretational problems that havearisen in its assessment and use. this paper is an attempt at a claricatoryanalysis at an elementary level. i shall also try to respond briey to someinteresting criticisms that have been made. 2. functionings, capability, and values perhaps the most primitive notion in this approach concerns functionings . functionings represent parts of the state of a person in particular the various things that he or she manages to do or be in leading a life. the capability of a person reects the alternative combinations of functionings the person canachieve, and from which he or she can choose one collection. 4the approach is based on a view of living as a combination of various doings and beings ,with quality of life to be assessed in terms of the capability to achieve valuable functionings. some functionings are very elementary, such as being adequately nour- ished, being in good health, etc., and these may be strongly valued by all,for obvious reasons. others may be more complex, but still widely valued,such as achieving self-respect or being socially integrated. individuals may,however, differ a good deal from each other in the weights they attach to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 272 amartya sen these different functionings valuable though they may all be and the assessment of individual and social advantages must be alive to these varia-tions. inthe context of some types of social analysis, for example, in dealing with extreme poverty in developing economies, we may be able to go a fairly long distance with a relatively small number of centrally important func-tionings and the corresponding basic capabilities (e.g. the ability to be wellnourished and well sheltered, the capability of escaping avoidable morbidityand premature mortality, and so forth). in other contexts, including moregeneral problems of economic development, the list may have to be muchlonger and much more diverse. choices have to be faced in the delineation of the relevant function- ings. the format always permits additional achievements to be denedand included. many functionings are of no great interest to the person (e.g.using a particular washing powder much like other washing powders). 5 there is no escape from the problem of evaluation in selecting a class of func-tionings in the description and appraisal of capabilities. the focus has to berelated to the underlying concerns and values, in terms of which some den- able functionings may be important and others quite trivial and negligible.the need for selection and discrimination is neither an embarrassment, noraunique difculty, for the conceptualization of functioning and capability. 3. value-objects and evaluative spaces inan evaluative exercise, we can distinguish between two different questions: (1)what are the objects of value? (2) howvaluable are the respective objects? even though formally the former question is an elementary aspect of the latter (in the sense that the objects of value are those that have positiveweights), nevertheless the identication of the objects of value is substantively the primary exercise which makes it possible to pursue the second question. furthermore, the very identication of the set of value-objects, with pos- itive weights, itself precipitates a dominance ranking ( xis at least as high as yif it yields at least as much of each of the valued objects). this dominance ranking, which can be shown to have standard regularity properties such as transitivity, can indeed take us some distance often quite a long distance in the evaluative exercise. 6 the identication of the objects of v alue species what may be called anevaluative space. instandard utilitarian analysis, for example, the eval- uative space consists of the individual utilities (dened in the usual termsof pleasures, happiness, or desire fullment). indeed, a complete evaluative

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 273 approach entails a class of informational constraints in the form of ruling outdirectly evaluative use of various types of information, to wit, those that do not belong to the evaluative space.7 the capability approach is concerned primarily with the identication of value-objects, and sees the evaluative space in terms of functionings andcapabilities to function. this is, of course, itself a deeply evaluative exercise,but answering question (1), on the identication of the objects of value,does not, on its own, yield a particular answer to question (2), regardingtheir relative values. the latter calls for a further evaluative exercise. varioussubstantive ways of evaluating functionings and capabilities can all belongtothe general capability approach. the selection of the evaluative space has a good deal of cutting power on its own, both because of what it includes as potentially valuable and because of what it excludes. forexample, because of the nature of the evaluative space, the capability approach differs from utilitarian evaluation (more generallywelfarist evaluation 8)inmaking room for a variety of human acts and states as important in themselves (not just because they may produce utility, nor just to the extent that they yield utility).9italso makes room for valu- ing various freedoms in the form of capabilities. on the other side, theapproach does not attach direct as op posed to derivative importance to themeans of living or means of freedom (e.g. real income, wealth, opulence, primary goods, or resources), as some other approaches do. these variablesare not part of the evaluative space, though they can indirectly inuence theevaluation through their effects on variables included in that space. 4. capability and freedom the freedom to lead different types of life is reected in the persons capa-bility set. the capability of a person depends on a variety of factors, includ-ing personal characteristics and social arrangements. a full accounting ofindividual freedom must, of course, go beyond the capabilities of personalliving and pay attention to the persons other objectives (e.g. social goalsnot directly related to ones own life), but human capabilities constitute animportant part of individual freedom. freedom, of course, is not an unproblematic concept. for example, if we do not have the courage to choose to live in a particular way, even though wecould live that way if we so chose, can it be said that we do have the freedom tolive that way, i.e. the corresponding capability? it is not my purpose here tobrush under the carpet difcult questions of this and other types. inso far as there are genuine ambiguities in the concept of freedom, that

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 274 amartya sen should be reected in corresponding ambiguities in the characterization of capability. this relates to a methodological point, which i have tried todefend elsewhere, that if an underlying idea has an essential ambiguity, aprecise formulation of that idea must try to capture that ambiguity rather than hide or eliminate it. 10 comparisons of freedom raise interesting issues of evaluation. the claim is sometimes made that freedom must be valued independently of the valuesand preferences of the person whose freedom is being assessed, since itconcer ns the range of choice a person has nothow she values the elements in that range or what she chooses from it. i do not believe for an instantthat this claim is sustainable (despite some supercial plausibility), but hadit been correct, it would have been a rather momentous conclusion, drivingaw e d g e between the evaluation of achievements and that of freedoms. it would, in particular, be then possible to assess the freedom of a person independently of or prior to the assessment of the alternatives betweenwhich the person can choose. 11 howcan we judge the goodness of a range of choice independently of or prior to considering the nature of the alternatives that constitute thatrange? some comparisons can, of course, be made in terms of set inclusion, for example, that reducing the menu from which one can choose will not increase ones freedom. 12butwhenever neither set is entirely included in the other, we have to go beyond such subset reasoning . one alternative is simply to count the number of elements in the set as reecting the value of the range of choice.13butthis number-counting procedure leads to a rather peculiar accounting of freedom. it is odd toconclude that the freedom of a person is no less when she has to choose between three alternatives which she sees respectively as bad , awful , andgruesome than when she has the choice between three alternatives which she assesses as good , excellent , and superb . 14further, it is always possible toadd trivially to the number of options one has (e.g. tearing ones hair, cutting ones ears, slicing ones toes, or jumping through the window), and itwould be amazing to see such additions as compensating for the loss of really valued options. 15the assessment of the elements in a range of choice has to be linked to the evaluation of the freedom to choose among that range.16 5. value-purposes and distinct exercises while the identication of value-objec ts and the specication of an evalua- tive space involve norms, the nature of the norms must depend on precisely

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 275 what the purpose of the evaluation is. assessing well-being may take us in one direction; judging achievement in terms of the persons overall goals may take us in a somewhat different direction, since a person can have objectivesother than the pursuit of his or her own well-being. judging achievementof either kind may also differ from the evaluation of the freedom to ac hieve, since a person can be advantaged in having more freedom and still end upachieving less. wecan make a fourfold classication of points of evaluative interest in assessing human advantage, based on two different distinctions. onedistinction is between (1.1) the promotion of the persons well-being ,and (1.2) the pursuit of the persons overall agency goals. the latter encompasses the goals that a person has reasons to adopt, which can inter alia include goals other than the advancement of his or her own well-being. it can thusgenerate orderings different from that of well-being. the second distinction is between (2.1) achievement ,and (2.2) the freedom to achieve. this contrast can be applied both to the perspective of well-being and to that of agency.the two distinctions together yield four different concepts of advantage,related to a person: (1) well-being achievement , (2) agency achievement , (3) well-being freedom , and (4) agency freedom . these different notions,which i have tried to discuss more extensively elsewhere, are not, of course,unrelated to each other, but nor are they necessarily identical. 17 the assessment of each of these four types of benet involves an evaluative exercise, but they are not the same evaluative exercise. they can also have verydisparate bearings on matters to which the evaluation and comparison of individual advantages are relevant. for example, in determining whetheraperson is deprived in a way that calls for assistance from others or from the state, a persons well-being may be, arguably, more relevant than hisagency success (e.g. the state may have better grounds for offering supporttoap erson for overcoming hunger or illness than for helping him to build a monument to his hero, even if he himself attaches more importance to themonument than to the removal of his hunger or illness). furthermore, foradult citizens, well-being freedom may be more relevant to state policy, in this context, than well-being achievement (e.g. the state may have reason to offer a person adequate opportunities to overcome hunger, but not to insist that hemust take up that offer and cease to be hungry). interpersonal comparisons can be of many distinct types, with possibly dissimilar evaluative interests.despite the interdependences between the different value-purposes, theycan generate quite distinct exercises with partly divergent concentrationand relevance.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 276 amartya sen 6. well-being, agency, and living standards the well-being achievement of a person can be seen as an evaluation of the well-ness of the persons state of being (rather than, say, the goodnessof her contribution to the country, or her success in achieving her overallgoals). the exercise, then, is that of assessing the constituent elements ofthe persons being seen from the perspective of her own personal welfare.the different functionings of the person will make up these constituentelements. this does not, of course, imply that a persons well-being cannot be other- regarding . rather, the effect of other-regarding concerns on ones well- being has to operate through some feature of the persons own being. doing good may make a person contented or fullled, and these are functioningachievements of importance. in this approach, functionings are seen ascentra lt othenature of well-being, even though the sourcesof well-being could easily be external to the person. the functionings relevant for well-being vary from such elementary ones as escaping morbidity and mortality, being adequately nourished, havingmobility, etc., to complex ones such as being happy, achieving self-respect,taking part in the life of the community, appearing in public without shame(the last a functioning that was illuminatingly discussed by adam smith 18). the claim is that the functionings make up a persons being, and the evalu-ation of a persons well-being has to take the form of an assessment of theseconstituent elements. ifthe value-purpose is changed from checking the well-ness of the per- sons being to assessing the persons success in the pursuit of all the objectivesthat he has reason to promote, then the exercise becomes one of evaluation ofagency achievement , rather than of well-being achievement. for this exer- cise, the space of functionings may be rather restrictive, since the personsgoals may well include other types of objective (going well beyond the per-sons own state of being). also, the difference between agency achievementand well-being achievement is not only a matter of space (the former taking us beyond the persons own life and functionings), but also one of differen-tialweighting of the shared elements (i.e. for the functionings that are perti- nent both to ones well-being and to ones other objectives, possibly differentweights may be attached in agency evaluation vis- a-vis well-being appraisal). the assessment of agency success is a broader exercise than the evaluation of well-being. it is also possible to consider narrower exercises than theappraisal of well-being. a particularly important one is that of evaluating a persons standard of living. this, too, may take the form of focusing on the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 277 persons functionings, but in this case we may have to concentrate only on those inuences on well-being that come from the nature of his own life, rather than from other-regarding objectives or impersonal concerns. for example, the happiness generated by a purely other-regarding achievement (e.g. the freeing of political prisoners in distant countries) may enhance thepersons well-being without, in any obvious sense, raising his living standard. inthe ethical context, the explicit recognition that ones well-being may often be affected by the nature of other peoples lives is not, of course,new. even emperor asoka, in the third century bc,noted the distinction clearly in one of his famous rock edicts in the process of dening whatshould count as an injury to a person: and, if misfortune befalls the friends,acquaintances, companions and relations of persons who are full of affection[towards the former], even though they are themselves well provided for,[this misfortune] is also an injury to their own selves. 19the inability to be happy, which will be widely recognized as a failure of an importantfunctioning (even though not the only important one, except in the hedonist version of utilitarianism), may arise either from sources within ones own life (e.g. being ill, or undernourished, or otherwise deprived), or from sourcesoutside it (e.g. the pain that comes from sympathizing with others misery).while both types of factor affect ones well-being, the case for excluding the latter from the assessment, specically, of ones living standards wouldseem fairly reasonable, since the latter relates primarily to the lives of others,rather than ones own. 20 7. why capability, not just achievement? the preceding discussion on the achievement of well-being and living stan-dards has been related to functionings rather than to capabilities. this wasdone by design to introduce distinct problems in sequence, even thougheventually an integrated view will have to be taken. in fact, the capability approach, as the terminology indicates, sees the capability set as the pri-mary informational base. why should we have to broaden our attentionfrom functionings to capability? weshould rst note that capabilities are dened derivatively from func- tionings. in the space of functionings any point, representing an n-tuple of functionings, reects a combination of the persons doings and beings,relevant to the exercise. the capability is a setof such functioning n-tuples, representing the various alternative combinations of beings and doings any one (combination) of which the person can choose. 21capability is thus dened in the space of functionings. if a functioning achievement (in the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 278 amartya sen form o fa n n-tuple of functionings) is a point in that space, capability is a setof such points (representing the alternative functioning n-tuples from which one n-tuple can be chosen). notefurther that the capability set contains information about the actual functioning n-tuple chosen, since it too is obviously among the feasible n- tuples. the evaluation of a capability set may be based on the assessment of the particular n-tuple chosen from that set. evaluation according to the achieved functioning combination is thus a special case of evaluation on thebasis of the capability set as a whole. in this sense, well-being achievementcan be assessed on the basis of the capability set, even when no freedom-typenotion inuences that achievement. in this case, in evaluating the capabilityset for the value-purpose of assessing well-being achievement, we wouldsimply have to identify the value of the capability set with the value of theachieved functioning n-tuple in it. the procedure of equating the value of the capability set to the value of oneof the elements of that set has been called elementary evaluation . 22 clearly, there is at least no informational loss in seeing well-being evalu- ation in terms of capabilities, rather than directly in terms of the achieved,or chosen, or maximal functioning n-tuple. while this indicates that the informational base of capability is at least as adequate as that of achievedfunctionings, the claim in favour of the capability perspective is, in fact,stronger. the advantages of the extension arise from two rather differenttypes o fc onsideration. first, we may be interested not merely in examining well-being achieve- ment , but also well-being freedom . a persons actual freedom to live welland be well is of some interest in social as well as personal evaluation. 23even if we were to take the view, which will be disputed presently, that well-beingachievement depends only on the achieved functionings, the well-beingfreedom of a person will represent the freedom to enjoy the various pos-sible well-beings associated with the different functioning n-tuples in the capability set. 24 second, freedom may have intrinsic importance for the persons well- being achievement. acting freely and being able to choose may be directlyconducive to well-being, not just because more freedom may make better alternatives available. this view is contrary to the one typically assumed instandard consumer theory, in which the contribution of a set of feasiblechoices is judged exclusively by the value of the best element available. 25 even the removal of all the elements of a feasible set (e.g. of a budget set) other than the chosen best element is seen, in that theory, as no real loss,since the freedom to choose does not, in this view, matter in itself.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 279 incontrast, if choosing is seen as a part of living (and doing xisdistin- guished from choosing to do xand doing it), then even well-being achieve- ment need not be independent of the freedom reected in the capability set.26inthat case, both well-being achievement and well-being freedom will have to be assessed in terms of capability sets. both must then involve set evaluation in a non-eleme ntary way (i.e. without limiting the usable informational content of capability sets through elementary evaluation). there are many formal problems involved in the evaluation of freedom and the relationship between freedom and achievement.27itis, in fact, possi- ble to characterize functionings in a rened way to take note of the coun-terfactual opportunities, so that the char acteristic of relating well-being achievement to functioning n-tuples could be retained without losing the substantive connection of well-being achievement to the freedom of choiceenjoyed by the person. corresponding to the functioning x,arened func- tioning ( x s)takes the form of having functioning xthrough choosing it from the set s prime.28 sometimes even our ordinary language presents functionings in a rened way. for example, fasting is not just starving, but starving through rejectingthe option of eating. the distinction is obviously important in many social contexts: we may, for example, try to eliminate involuntary hunger, but not wish to forbid fasting. the importance of seeing functionings in a rened way relates to the relevance of choice in our lives. the role of the choice involved in a capability set has been discussed above in the context of well-being only,but similar arguments apply to the assessment of agency achievement andthe standard of living. 29 8. basic capability and poverty forsome evaluative exercises, it may be useful to identify a subset of crucially important capabilities dealing with what have come to be known as basicneeds . 30there tends to be a fair amount of agreement on the extreme urgency of a class of needs. particular moral and political importance maywell be attached to fullling well-recognized, urgent claims. 31 itis possible to argue that equality in the fullment of certain basic capabilities provides an especially plausible approach to egalitarianism in the presence of elementary deprivation.32the term basic capabilities , used in sen ( 1980 ), was intended to separate out the ability to satisfy certain crucially important functionings up t ocertain minimally adequate levels. the identication of minimally acceptable levels of certain basic capabilities(below which people count as being scandalously deprived) can provide a

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 280 amartya sen possible approach to poverty, and i shall comment on the relation of this strategy to more traditional income-focused analyses of poverty. but it isalso important to recognize that the use of the capability approach is notconned to basic capabilities only. 33 turning to poverty analysis, identifying a minimal combination of basic capabilities can be a good way of setting up the problem of diagnosingand measuring poverty. it can lead to results quite different from thoseobtained by concentrating on the inadequacy of income as the criterion ofidentifying the poor. 34the conversion of income into basic capabilities may vary greatly between individuals and also between different societies, so thatthe ability to reach minimally acceptable levels of basic capabilities can gowith varying levels of minimally adequate incomes. the income-centred view of poverty, based on specifying an interpersonally invariant poverty line income, may be very misleading in the identication and evaluation ofpoverty. however,the point is sometimes made that poverty must, in some sense, be a matter of inadequacy of income, rather than a failure of capabilities,and this might suggest that the capability approach to poverty is essentiallywrong-headed . this objection overl ooks both the motivational underpin- ning of poverty analysis and the close correspondence between capabilityfailure and income inadequacy when the latter is dened taking note ofparametric variations in income-capability relations. since income is not desired for its own sake, any income-based notion of poverty must refer directly or indirectly to those basic ends whichare promoted by income as means. indeed, in poverty studies related toless developed countries, the poverty line income is often derived explicitlywith reference to nutritional norms. once it is recognized that the relation between income and capabilities varies between communities and betweenpeople in the same community, the minimally adequate income level forreaching the same minimally acceptable capability levels will be seen as variable depending on personal and social characteristics. however, aslong as minimal capabilities can be achieved by enhancing the income level(given the other personal and social characteristics on which capabilitiesdepend), it will be possible (for the specied personal and social charac-teristics) to identify the minimally adequate income for reaching the mini- mally acceptable capability levels. once this correspondence is established,it would not really matter whether poverty is dened in terms of a failure ofbasic capability or as a failure to have the corresponding minimally adequate income. 35

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 281 thus, the motivationally more accurate characterization of poverty as a failure of basic capabilities can also be seen in the more traditional format of an income inadequacy. the difference in formulation is unimportant.what is really important is to take note of the interpersonal and intersocial variations in the relation between incomes and capabilities. that is wherethe distinctive contribution of the capability approach to poverty analysislies. 10. the aristotelian connections and contrasts inearlier writings i have commented on the connection of the capability approach with some arguments used by adam smith and karl marx.36how- ever, the most powerful conceptual connections would appear to be with the aristotelian view of the human good. martha nussbaum ( 1988 ,1990 )has discussed illuminatingly the aristotelian analysis of political distribution ,and its relation to the capability approach. the aristotelian account of thehuman good is explicitly linked with the necessity to rst ascertain the func- tion of man and it then proceeds to explore life in the sense of activity . 37 the basis of a fair distribution of capability to function is given a centralplace in the aristotelian theory of political distribution. in interpreting aris-totles extensive writings on ethics and politics, it is possible to note some ambiguity and indeed to nd some tension between different propositionspresented by him, but his recognition of the crucial importance of a personsfunctionings and capabilities seems to e merge clearly enough, especially in the political context of distributive arrangements. while the aristotelian link is undoubtedly important, it should also be noted that there are some substantial differences between the way func-tionings and capabilities are used in what i have been calling the capabilityapproach and the way they are dealt with in aristotles own analysis. aristotlebelieves, as nussbaum ( 1988 )notes, that there is just one list of function- ings (at least at a certain level of generality) that do in fact constitute humangood living (p. 152). that view would not be inconsistent with the capabilityapproach presented here, but not,byanymeans, required byit. the capability approach has indeed been used (for example, in sen, 1983 c, 1984 )toargue that while the commodity requirements of such capabilities as being able to take part in the life of the community or being able to appear in public without shame vary greatly from one community to another (therebygiving the poverty line a relativist character in the space of commodities), there is much less variation in the capabilities that are aimed at through

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 282 amartya sen the use of these commodities. this argument, suggesting less variability at amore intrinsic level, has clear links with aristotles identication of non- relative virtues , but the aristotelian claims of uniqueness go much further.38 martha nussbaum, as an aristotelian, notes this distinction, and also points to aristotles robust use of an objectivist framework based on a par-ticular reading of human nature. she suggests the following: itseems to me, then, that sen needs to be more radical than he has been so far in his criticism of the utilitarian accounts of well-being, by introducing an objective normative account of human functioning and by describing a procedure of objectiveevaluation by which functionings can be assessed for their contribution to the good human life. 39 iaccept that this would indeed be a systematic way of eliminating the incompleteness of the capability approach. i certainly have no great objection toanyone going on that route. my difculty with accepting that as the only route on which to travel arises partly from the concern that this view of human nature (with a unique list of functionings for a good human life) may be tremendously over-specied, and also from my inclination to argueabout the nature and importance of the type of objectivity involved in thisapproach. but mostly my intransigence arises, in fact, from the considerationthat the use of the capability approach as such does not require takingthat route, and the deliberate incompleteness of the capability approachpermits other routes to be taken which also have some plausibility. it is,in fact, the feasibility as well as the usefulness of a general approach (tobe distinguished from a complete evaluative blueprint) that seems to metoprovide good grounds for separating the general case for the capability approach (including, inter alia ,the aristotelian theory) from the special case for taking on exclusively this particular aristotelian theory. infact, no matter whether we go the full aristotelian way, which will also need a great deal of extension as a theory for practical evaluation, or takesome other particular route, there is little doubt that the kind of general argument that aristotle uses to motivate his approach does have a widerrelevance than the defence of the particular form he gives to the nature of human good. this applies inter alia toaristotles rejection of opulence as a criterion of achievement (rejecting wealth and income as the standards), hisanalysis of eudaimonia in terms of valued activities (rather than relying on readings of mental states, as in some utilitarian procedures), and his assertion of the need to examine the processes through which human activities arechosen (thereby pointing towards the importance of freedom as a part of living).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 283 11. incompleteness and substance the aristotelian critique points towards a more general issue, namely, that of the incompleteness of the capability approach both in generating sub-stantive judgements and in providing a comprehensive theory of valuation.quite different specic theories of value may be consistent with the capabil-ity approach, and share the common feature of selecting value-objects fromfunctionings and capabilities. further, the capability approach can be usedwith different methods of determining relative weights and different mecha- nisms for actual evaluation. the approach, if seen as a theory of algorithmicevaluation, would be clearly incomplete. 40 itmay well be asked: why pause at outlining a general approach, with various bits to be lled in, rather than completing the task? the motivationunderlying the pause relates to the recognition that an agreement on theusability of the capability approach an agreement on the nature of thespace of value-objects need not presuppose an agreement on how the valu- ational exercise may be completed. it is possible to disagree both on the exactgrounds underlying the determination of relative weights, and on the actual relative weights chosen, 41even when there is reasoned agreement on the general nature of the value-objects (in this case, personal functionings andcapabilities). if reasoned agreement is seen as an important foundationalquality central to political and social ethics, 42then the case for the pause is not so hard to understand. the fact that the capability approach isconsistent and combinable with several different substantive theories need not be a source of embarrassment. interestingly enough, despite this incompleteness, the capability approach does have considerable cutting power . in fact, the more challenging part ofthe claim in favour of the capability approach lies in what it denies. it differsfrom the standard utility-based approaches in not insisting that we mustvalue only happiness (and sees, instead, the state of being happy as one among several objects of value), or only desire fullment (and takes, instead, desire as useful but imperfect evidence frequ ently distorted of what the person herself values). 43itdiffers also from other non-utilitarian approaches in not placing among value-objects primary goods as such (accepting these rawlsian-focus variables only derivatively and instrumentally and only tothe extent that these goods promote capabilities), or resource sa ssuch(valuing this dworkinian perspective only in terms of the impact of resources onfunctionings and capabilities), and so forth. 44 ageneral acceptance of the intrinsic relevance and centrality of the various functionings and capabilities that make up our lives does have substantial

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 284 amartya sen cutting power, but it need not be based on a prior agreement on the relative values of the different functionings or capabilities, or on a specic procedurefor deciding on those relative values. indeed, it can be argued that it may be a mistake to move on relentlessly until one gets to exactly one mechanism for determining relative weights,or to turn to a different aspect of the incompleteness until one arrives atexactly one interpretation of the metaphysics of value. there are substantive differences between different ethical theories at different levels, from themeta-ethical (involving such issues as objectivity) to the motivational, andit is not obvious that for substantive political and social philosophy it issensible to insist that all these general issues be resolved before an agreement is reached on the choice of an evaluative space. just as the utilization of actualweights in practical exercises may be based on the acceptance of a certain range of variability of weights (as i have tried to discuss in the context of the useof the capability approach 45), even the general rationale for using such an approach may be consistent with some ranges of answers to foundationalquestions. 12. a concluding remark inthis paper i have tried to discuss the main features of the capability approach to evaluation: its claims, its uses, its rationale, its problems. ihave also addressed some criticisms that have been made of the approach.ishall not try to summarize the main contentions of the paper, but before concluding, i would like to emphasize the plurality of purposes for which the capability approach can have relevance. there are different evaluative problems, related to disparate value- purposes. among the distinctions that are important is that between well-being and agency, and that between achievement and freedom. the fourcategories of intrapersonal assessment and interpersonal comparison thatfollow from these two distinctions (namely, well-being achievement, well-being freedom, agency achievement, and agency freedom) are related toeach other, but are not identical. the capability approach can be used foreach of these different types of evaluation, though not with equal reach. it isparticularly relevant for the assessment of well-being in the form of bothachievement and freedom and for the related problem of judging livingstandards. asfar as social judgements are concerned, the individual evaluations feed directly into social assessment. even though the original motivationfor using the capability approach was provided by an examination of the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 285 question equality of what? (sen, 1980 ), the use of the approach, if successful for equality, need not be conned to equality only.46the usability of the approach in egalitarian calculus depends on the plausibility of seeing indi- vidual advantages in terms of capabilities, and if that plausibility is accepted, then the same general perspective can be seen to be relevant for other typesof social evaluation and aggregation. the potentially wide relevance of the capability perspective should not come as a surprise, since the capability approach is concerned with showing the cogency of a particular space for the evaluation of individual opportu- nities and successes. in any social calculus in which individual advantagesare constitutively important, that space is of potential signicance. notes 1.this was in a tanner lecture given at stanford university in may 1979 (equality of what?), later published as sen ( 1980 ). the case for focusing on capability was introduced here in the specic context of evaluating inequality. i have triedtoexplore the possibility of using the capability perspective for analysing other social issues, such as well-being and poverty (sen, 1982 a,1983 c,1985 b), liberty and freedom (sen, 1983 a,1988 a,1992 ), living standards and development (sen, 1983 b,1984 ,1987 b,1988 b), gender bias and sexual divisions (kynch and sen, 1983 ;s e n , 1985 c,1990 b), and justice and social ethics (sen, 1982 b,1985 a,1990 a). 2.though at the time of proposing the approach, i did not manage to seize its aris-totelian connections, it is interesting to note that the greek word dunamin ,used byaristotle to discuss an aspect of the human good, which is sometimes trans- lated as potentiality , can be translated also as capability of existing or acting(see liddell and scott, 1977 :452). the aristotelian perspective and its connec- tions with the recent attempts at constructing a capability-focused approachhave been illuminatingly discussed by martha nussbaum ( 1988 ). 3.see the contributions of roemer ( 1982 ,1986 ), streeten ( 1984 ), beitz ( 1986 ), dasgupta ( 1986 ,1988 ,1989 ), hamlin ( 1986 ), helm ( 1986 ), zamagni ( 1986 ), basu ( 1987 ), brannen and wilson ( 1987 ), hawthorn ( 1987 ); kanbur ( 1987 ), kumar ( 1987 ), muellbauer ( 1987 ), ringen ( 1987 ), b. williams ( 1987 ), wilson (1987 ), nussbaum ( 1988 ,1990 ), grifn and knight ( 1989 a,1989 b), riley (1988 ), cohen ( 1990 ), and steiner (1990). on related matters, including appli- cation, critique, and comparison, see also de beus ( 1986 ), kakwani ( 1986 ), luker (1986 ), sugden ( 1986 ), asahi ( 1987 ), delbono ( 1987 ), koohi-kamali (1987), a. williams ( 1987 ), broome ( 1988 ), gaertner ( 1988 ), stewart ( 1988 ), suzumura (1988 ), de vos and hagennars (1988), goodin ( 1985 ,1988 ), hamlin and pettit (1989 ), seabright ( 1989 ), hossain ( 1990 ), and schokkaert and van ootegem (1990 ), among others. 4.ifthere are nrelevant functionings, then a persons extent of achievement of all of them respectively can be represented by an n-tuple. there are several technical problems in the representation and analysis of functioning n-tuples and capability sets, on which see sen ( 1985 b:chs. 2, 4, and 7).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 286 amartya sen 5.bernard williams ( 1987 )raises this issue in his comments on my tanner lec- tures on the standard of living (pp. 98101); on which see also sen ( 1987 b: 1089). on the inescapable need for evaluation of different functioning and capabilities, see sen ( 1985 b:chs. 57). just as the concentration on the com- modity space in real-income analysis does not imply that every commodity mustbe taken to be equally valuable (or indeed valuable at all), similarly focusing onthe space of functioning does not entail that each functioning must be taken tobe equally valuable (or indeed valuable at all). 6.on this and on other formulations and uses of dominance ranking, see sen(1970 :chs. 1 ,7,9). 7.on the crucial role of the informational basis, and on the formulation and useof informational constraints, see sen ( 1970 ,1977 )and daspremont and gevers (1977 ). 8.welfarism requires that a state of affairs must be judged by the individual utilities in that state. it is one of the basic components of utilitarianism (the others beingsum-ranking and consequentialism); on the factorization, see sen ( 1982 a) and sen and williams ( 1982 ). 9.being happy and getting what one desires may be inter alia valued in the capabil- ity approach, but unlike in utilitarian traditions, they are not seen as the measureof all values. 10.on this, see sen ( 1970 ,1982 a,1987 a). in many contexts, the mathematical rep- resentations should take the form of partial orderings or fuzzy relations. this is not, of course, a special problem with the capability approach, butapplies generally to conceptual frameworks in social, economic, and politicaltheory. 11.the belief in this possibility seems to play a part in robert sugdens ( 1986 ) criticism of what he sees as my approach to capability evaluation, namely, ageneral strategy of trying to derive the value of a setof functioning vectors from prior ranking of the vectors themselves (p. 821). he argues in favour of judgingthe value of being free to choose from a range of possible lives before taking aview on what constitutes a valuable life . this criticism is, in fact, based on amisunderstanding of the approach proposed, since it has been a part of my claim (on which more presently) that the judgement of the quality of life and the assessment of freedom have to be done simultaneously in an integrated way, and, in particular, that the quality of life a person enjoys is not merely a matterof what he or she achieved, but also of what options the person has had theopportunity to choose from (sen, 1985 b:6970). but the point at issue in the present context is the possibility of judging a range of choice independently of the value characteristics of the elements in that range. it is this possibility that i am disputing. 12.even this can be questioned when an expanded menu causes confusion, or the necessity to choose between a larger set of alternatives is a nuisance. butsuch problems can be dealt with through appropriate characterization of all the choices one has or does not have. this must include the consideration of the overall c hoice of having ornot having to choose among a whole lot of relatively trivial alternatives (e.g. the choice of telling the telephone company to shut out mechanically dialled calls from sales age nts offering a plethora of purchasing

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 287 options). the issues involved in this kind of complex evaluation, incorporating choices over choices, are discussed in sen ( 1992 ). 13.foranilluminating axiomatic derivation of the number-counting method of freedom evaluation, see pattanaik and xu ( 1990 ). 14.the unacceptability of this kind of number-counting evaluation of freedom isdiscussed in sen ( 1985 b). for an assessment of the axiomatic foundations of this and other methods of evaluation of freedom, see sen ( 1991 ). 15.this type of case also shows why the set-inclusion ranking is best seen as aweak relation of no worse than or at least as good as , rather than as thestrict relation of better than . adding the option of slicing ones toes to the set of valued options a person already has may not reduce her freedom (since one can reject toe-slicing), but it is hard to take it to be a strict increase in that persons freedom. 16.aswas argued earlier, the relation is two-sided, and the evaluation of the freedom tolead a life and the assessment of the life l ed (including choosing freely) have tobe done simultaneously, in a desegregated way. 17.since a persons agency objectives will typically include, inter alia ,his or her own well-being, the two will to some extent go t ogether (e.g. an increase in well-being, other things being equal, will involve a higher agency achievement). in addition,afailure to achieve ones non-well-being objectives may also cause frustration, thereby reducing ones well-being. these and other connections exist between well-being and agency, but they do not make the two concepts congruent nor isomorphic in the sense of generating the same orderings. similarly, morefreedom (either to have well-being or to achieve ones agency goals) may leadone to end up achieving more (respectively, of well-being or of agency success),but it is also possible for freedom to go up while achievement goes down, andvice ver sa. we have here four interdependent butnon-identical concepts. these distinctions and their inter-relations are discussed more fully in sen ( 1985 a, 1992 ). 18.see adam smith ( 1776 :vol. ii, bk v , ch. 2 (section on taxes upon consumable commodities)), in campbell and skinner ( 1976 ), 46971. 19.rock edicts xiii at erragudi, statement vii. for a translation and discussion, see sircar ( 1979 :34). 20.this view may be disputed by considering a different way of drawing the linebetween well-being and living standards. one common approach is to relate theassessment of living standards only to real incomes and to economic or mate-rial causes. on this see a. c. pigou ( 1920 ); and on the conceptual differences see bernard williams ( 1987 ). but the pigovian view has problems of its own. forexample, if one has a disability that makes one get very little out of material income or wealth, or if ones life is shattered by an inconvenient and incurableillness (e.g. kidney problems requiring extensive dialysis), it is hard to claim thatones standard of living is high just because one is well heeled. i have discussedthis question and related matters in sen ( 1987 b:269, 10910). 21.forformal characterizations, see sen ( 1985 b:c h s .2 and 7). 22.on this see sen ( 1985 b:601). the distinguished element can be the achieved one (as in this case), or more specically the chosen one (if there is a choice exercise in determining what happens), or the maximal one (in term so fs o m e

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 288 amartya sen criterion of goodness). the three will coincide if what is achieved is achieved through choice, and what is chosen is chosen through maximization accordingtothat criterion of goodness. 23.aswas argued earlier in dealing with responsible adults, it may be appropriate tosee the claims of individuals on society in terms of the freedom to ac hieve well-being (and thus in terms of real opportunities) rather than in terms of actual achievements. ifthe social arrangements are such that a responsible adult is given no less freedom (in terms of set comparisons) than others, but he stillmuffs the opportunities and ends up worse off than others, it is possible to argue that no particular injustice is involved. on this and related matters, seesen ( 1985 a). 24.the same capability set can then be used for the evaluation of both well-beingachievement (through elementary evaluation ,c o n c e n t r a ting on the achieved element) and well-being freedom (through non-elementary set evaluation ). 25.thus, in standard consumer theory, set evaluation takes the form of elementaryevaluation. for particular departures from that tradition, see koopmans ( 1964 ) and kreps ( 1979 ). in the koopmans-kreps approach, however, the motivation is not so much to see living freely as a thing of intrinsic importance, but totake note of uncertainty regarding ones own future preference by valuing instrumentally the advantage of having more options in the future. on themotivational contrasts, see sen ( 1985 a,1985 b). 26.aswas argued in an earlier paper, the good life is partly a life of genuine choice, and not one in which the person is forced into a particular life however richit might be in other respects (sen, 1985 b:6970). 27.see sen ( 1985 b,1988 a,1991 ), suppes ( 1987 ), pattanaik and xu ( 1990 ). 28.the characteristics and relevance of rened functioning have been discussedin sen ( 1985 a,1988 a). 29.these issues are discussed in sen ( 1985 a,1987 b). 30.the basic needs literature is extensive. for a helpful introduction, see streetenetal.(1981 ). in a substantial part of the literature, there is a tendency to dene basic needs in the form of needs for commodities (e.g. for food, shelter, clothing, health care), and this may distract attention from the fact that these commodi-ties are no more than the means toreal ends (inputs for valuable functionings and capabilities). on this question, see streeten ( 1984 ). the distinction is par- ticularly important since the relationship between commodities and capabilities may vary greatly between individuals even in the same society (and of coursebetween different societies). for example, even for the elementary function-ing of being well-nourished, the relation between food intake and nutritionalachievements varies greatly with metabolic rates, body size, gender, pregnancy,age, climatic conditions, epidemiological characteristics, and other factors (on these and related matters see dr eze and sen, 1989 ). the capability approach can accommodate the real issues underlying, the concern for basic needs, avoidingthe pitfall of commodity fetishism . 31.the importance of socially recognized ideas of urgency has been illuminatingly discussed by thomas scanlon (1975). 32.on this see sen ( 1980 ). t o avoid confusion, it should also be noted that the term basic capabilities is sometimes used in quite a different sense from the one

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 289 specied above, e.g. as a persons potential capabilities that could be developed, whether or not they are actually realized (this is the sense in which the term is used, for example, by martha nussbaum ( 1988 )). 33.while the notion of basic capabilities was used in sen ( 1980 ,1983 c), in later papers the capability approach has been used without identifying certain capa- bilities as basic and others as not so (see e.g. sen, 1984 ,1985 a,1985 b). this point is relevant to g. a. cohens distinction between focusing on what hecalls midfare and on functioning and capabilities. there are more importantdistinctions to explore (to be taken up in section 9), but the contrasts lookarticially sharper if the capability approach is seen as being conned only to the analysis of basic capabilities. 34.on this see sen ( 1983 c). see also dr eze and sen ( 1989 )and hossain ( 1990 ). 35.technically, what is being used in this analysis is the inverse function , taking us back from specied capability levels to necessary incomes, given the otherinuences on capability. this procedure will not be usable, in this form, if thereare people who are so handicapped in terms of personal characteristics that nolevel of income will get them to reach minimally acceptable basic capabilities;such people would then be invariably identied as poor. 36.see, particularly, smith ( 1776 )and marx ( 1844 ). the connections are discussed in sen ( 1984 ,1985 a,1987 b). 37.see particularly the nicomachean ethics ,bki,s.7;inthe translation by ross (1980 :1214). 38.on this see nussbaum ( 1990 ). 39.nussbaum ( 1988 :176). 40.this relates to one part of the critique presented by beitz ( 1986 ). 41.on this see sen ( 1985 b:chs. 57). 42.on this question, see rawls ( 1971 ), scanlon ( 1982 ), b. williams ( 1985 ). 43.forcomparisons and contrasts between the capability approach and utilitarian views, see sen ( 1984 ,1985 a). 44.see rawls ( 1971 ,1988 a,1988 b), dworkin ( 1981 ), and sen ( 1980 ,1984 ,1990 a). 45.see sen ( 1985 b); on the general strategy of using intersection partial orders , see sen ( 1970 ,1977 ). 46.corresponding to equality of what? , there is, in fact, also the question: efciency of what? refere nces aristotle (4th c. bc).the nicomachean ethics :see ross (1980). arneson, r. (1987). equality and equality of opportunity for welfare , philosophical studies ,s4. asahi, j. (1987). on professor sens capability theory , mimeographed, t okyo. basu, k. (1987). achievements, capabilities and the concept of well-being , social choice and welfare ,4 . beitz, c. r. (1986). amartya sens resources, values and development ,economics and philosophy ,2 . brannen, j., and wilson, g. (eds.) (1987). give and take in families .l o n d o n : allen and unw in.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 290 amartya sen broome, j. (1988). review of on ethics and economics and the standard of living in london review of books . campbell, r. h., and skinner, a. s. (eds.) (1976). adam smith, aninquiry into the nature and causes of the wealth of nations .oxford: clarendon press. cohen, g. a. (1989). on the currency of egalitarian justice , ethics ,99. (1990). equality of what? on welfare, goods and capabilities , recher ches economiques de louvain ,56. culyer, a. j. (1985). the scope and limits of health economies , okonomie des gesund- heitswesens . dasgupta, p . (1986). positive freedom, markets and the welfare state , oxford review of economic policy ,2 . (1988). lives and well-being , social choice and welfare ,5 . (1989). power and control in the good polity , in hamlin and pettit (1989). daspremont, c, and gevers, l. (1977). equity and the informational basis of collective choice , reviewofeconomic studies ,46. debeus, jos (1986). sens theory of liberty and institutional vacuum , university of amsterdam. devos, k., and hagenaars, aldi j. m. (1988). a comparison between the poverty concep ts of sen and t ownsend , mimeographed, university of leiden. deaton, a., and muellbauer, j. (1980). economics and consumer behaviour .cambridge: cambridge university press. delbono, f. (1987). review article on commodities and capabilities, economic notes . dr eze, j., and sen, a. (1989). hunger and public action .oxford: clarendon press. dworkin, r. (1981). what is equality? part 2: equality of resources , philosophy and public affairs ,10. elster, j., and hylland, a. (eds.) (1986). foundations of social choice theory .cambridge: cambridge university press. gaertner, w. (1988). review of commodities and capabilities in zeitschriften fur national okommnomia ,48. goodin, r. e. (1985). political theory and public policy .chicago and london: university of chicago press. (1988). reasons for welfare: political theory of the welfare state .p rinceton: princeton university press. grifn, j. (1986). well-being .oxford: clarendon press. grifn, k., and knight, j. (eds.) (1989 a). human development in the 1980s and beyond , special number, journal of development planning ,19. (1989 b). human development: the case for renewed emphasis , journal of development planning ,19. hamlin, a. p . (1986). ethics, economics and the state .brighton: wheatsheaf books. hamlin, a., and pettit, p . (eds.) (1989). the good polity: normative analysis of the state . oxford: blackwell. hare,r.(1981). moralthinking .oxford: clarendon press. harrison, r. (ed.) (1979). rational action .cambridge: cambridge university press. hawthorn, g. (1987). introduction in sen (1987b). helm, d. (1986). the assessment: the economic border of the state, oxford review of economic policy ,2 . hossain, i. (1990). poverty as capability failure .helsinki: swedish school of economics and business administration.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 291 kakwani, n. (1986). analysing redistribution policies .cambridge: cambridge university press. kanbur, r. (1987). the standard of living: uncertainty, inequality and opportunity , in sen (1987 b). koohi-kamali, f. (1988), the pattern of female mortality in iran and some of its causes , applied economics discussion paper 62, oxfor dinstitute of economics and statistics. koopmans, t. c. (1964). on flexibility of future preference , in m. w. shelly and g. l. bryan(eds.), human judgments and optimality .n e wy o r k :wiley. kreps, d. (1979). a representation theorem for preference for flexibility , econometrica , 47. kumar, b. g. (1987). poverty and public policy: government intervention and level in kerala, india. d.phil, dissertation, oxford university. kynch, j., and sen, a. (1983). indian women: well-being and survival , cambridge journal of economics ,7 . llddell, h. g., and scott, r. (1977). agreek-english lexicon ,e x t e n d e db yh .s .j o n e sa n d r. mckenzie. oxford: clarendon press. luker,w.(1986). welfare economics, positivist? idealism and quasi-experimental methodology , mimeographed, university of t exas, austin. marx,k.(1844). economic and philosophic manuscripts .english translation. london: lawrence and wishart, 1977. mcmurrin, s. m. (ed.) (1980). tanner lectures on human values ,i .s a l t lake city: university of utah press, and cambridge: cambridge university press. muellbauer, j. (1987). professor sen on the standard of living , in sen (1987 b). nussbaum, m. (1988). nature, function, and capability: aristotle on political distri- bution , oxford studies in ancient philosophy ,s u p pl. vol. (1990). non-relative virtues: an aristotelian approach , midwest studies in philosophy ,13; revised version in this volume. pattanaik, p . k., and xu, y ongsheng (1990). on ranking opportunity sets in t erms of freedom of choice , recherches economiques de louvain ,s6. pigou, a. c. (1920). the economics of welfare .london: macmillan. rawls, j. (1971). atheory of justice .cambridge, mass.: harvard university press, and oxford: clarendon press. (1988 a). priority of right and ideas of the good , philosophy and public affairs , 17. (1988 b). reply to sen , mimeographed, harvard university. etal.(1987). liberty, equality, and law: selecte dtanner lectures on moral philos- ophy ,ed. s. mcmurrin. cambridge: cambridge university press, and salt lake city: university of utah press. riley, j. (1988). liberal utilitarianism: social choice theory and j. s. mills philosophy . cambridge: cambridge university press. ringen, j. (1987). the possibility of politics: a study of the economy of the welfare state . oxford: clarendon press. roemer, j. (1982). ageneral theory of exploitation and class .cambridge, mass.: harvard university press. (1986). an historical materialist alternative to welfarism , in elster and hylland (1986). ross, d. (1980). aristotle, the nicomachean ethics .the worlds classics. oxford: oxford university press.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 292 amartya sen scanlon, t. m. (1979). preference and urgency , journal of philosophy ,72. (1982). contractualism and utilitarianism , in sen and williams (1982). schokkaert, e., and van ootegem, l. (1990). sens concept of the living standard applied to the belgian unemployed , recherches economiques de louvain ,s6. seabright, p . (1989). social choice and social theories , philosophy and public affairs , 18. sen, a. k. (1970). collective choice and social welfare .san francisco: holden-day. republished amsterdam: north-holland, 1979. (1977). on weights and measures: informational constraints in social welfare analysis , econometrica ,45. (1980). equality of what? (1979 tanner lecture at stanford), in mcmurrin (1980); repr. in sen (1982a) and rawls etal.(1987). (1982 a).choice, welfare and measurement .o xford: blackwell, and cambridge, mass.: mit press. (1982 b). rights and agency , philosophy and public affairs ,11. (1983 a). liberty and social choice , journal of philosophy ,80. (1983 b). development: which way now? , economic journal ,93; repr. in sen (1984). (1983 c). poor, relatively speaking, oxford economic papers ,3 5 ;r e p r .i ns e n (1984). (1984). resources, values and development .o xford: blackwell, and cambridge, mass.: harvard university press. (1985 a). well-being, agency and freedom: the dewey lectures 1984 , journal ofphilosophy ,82. (1985 b).commodities and capabilities .amsterdam: north-holland. (1985 c). women, t echnology and sexual divisions , trade and development ,6 . (1987 a).on ethics and economics .o xford: blackwell. (1987 b).the standard of living (1985 tanner lectures at cambridge, with con- tributions by keith hart, ravi kanbur, john muellbauer, and bernard williams, edited byg. hawthorn). cambridge: cambridge university press. (1988 a). freedom of choice: concept and content , european economic review 32. (1988 b). the concept of development , in h. chenery and t. n. srinivasan (eds.), handbook of development economics .amsterdam: north-holland. (1990 a). justice: means versus freedoms , philosophy and public affairs ,19. (1990b). gender and cooperative conicts , in tinker (1990). (1991). preference, freedom and social welfare , journal of econometrics ,50. (1992). inequality reexamined .oxford: clarendon press. and williams, b. (eds.) (1982). utilitarianism and beyond .cambridge: cam- bridge university press. sircar, d. c. (1979). asokan studies .calcutta: indian museum. smith, adam (1776). aninquiry into the nature of causes of the wealth of nations :s e e campbell and skinner (1976). steiner, h. (1986). putting rights in their place: an appraisal of amartya sens work on rights , mimeographed, university of manchester. stewart, f. (1988). basic needs strategies, human rights and the right to development , mimeographed, queen elizabeth house.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 293 streeten, p . (1984). basic needs: some unsettled questions , world dev elopment ,12. streeten, p ., etal.(1981). first things first; meeting basic needs in developing countries . newyork: oxford university press. sugden, r. (1986). review of commodities and capabilities, economic journal ,96. suppes, p . (1987). maximizing freedom of decision: an axiomatic analysis , in g. r. feiwel (ed.), arrowand the foundations of economic policy .n e wy o r k :n e wy o r k university press. suzumura, k. (1988). introduction to the japanese translation of commodities and capabilities .tokyo: iwanami. tinker, i. (ed.) (1990). persistent inequalities .new y ork: oxford university press. williams, a. (1985). economics of coronary bypass grafting , british medical journal , 291. (1991). what is health and who creates it? , in j. hutton etal.(eds.), depe ndency to enterprise .l o n d o n :r o utledge. williams, b. (1985). ethics and the limits of philosophy .london: fontana, and cam- bridge, ma: harvard university press. (1987). the standard of living: interests and capabilities , in sen (1987 b). wilson, g. (1987). money in the family .aldershot: avebury. zamagni, s. (1986). introduzione , in a. sen, scelta, benessere, equita .bologna: il mulino.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 294

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 partfour branches and schools of economics and their methodological problems economics is a diverse undertaking consisting of different branches and schools. within what one might call mainstream economics which isincreasingly dominant one nds many different activities, each with its ownmethodological peculiarities and problems. discussions of many intriguingbranches of mainstream economics could have been included in part iv.inquiries such as behavioral economics, industrial management, the eco- nomics of information, labor economics, game theory, and so forth all raisedistinctive and important me thodological questions. because of space constraints, part iv contains methodological discus- sions of only four branches of mainstream economics. in chapter 16,k e v i n d.hoover examines some of the philosophical issues concerning contem- porary econometrics, including some of the problems involved in makingcausal inferences. in chapter 17,hoover addresses the question of how closely linked macroeconomics should be to microeconomics, which haslong been one of the central methodological questions concerning macro-economics. in chapter 18,vernon smith, who won a nobel prize mainly for his work in experimental economics probes some of the central method-ological questions raised by this relatively new and exciting eld, whereasin chapter 19,colin f. camerer explores the possibility that inquiries into neurology might guide economic theorizing. the remaining two chapters in part iv discuss two of the most impor- tant approaches to economics that compete with mainstream economics. inchapter 20,james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg provide an introduc- tion to the distinctive subjective methodology of austrian economics and, inchapter 21,g e o ffrey m. hodgson provides an overview of the way in which institutionalist or so-called evolutionar yeconomists approach the subject. 295

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 296

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 sixteen econometrics as observation the lucas critique and the nature of econometric inference kevin d .h o o v e r kevinhoover (1955 ) received a d.phil. in economics from oxford university after an undergraduate major in philosophy, and his work reects this dual competence. hehas contributed both to contemporary economics (especially macroeconomics) and to economic methodology, serving for a decade as the editor of the journal of economic methodology .after more than two decades at the university of california, davis, hoover is now a professor of economics and a professor of philosophy atduke university. 1. the lucas critique perhaps the principal challenge to the use of econometric models in eco- nomic analysis is the policy non-invariance argument, popularly known as the lucas critique . robert lucas ( 1976 )attacks the use of econometric models as bases for the evaluation of policy on the grounds that the esti-mated equations of such models are unlikely to remain invariant to the verychanges in policy that the economist seeks to evaluate. the argument is orig- inally cast as an implication of rational ex pectations. among the constraints people face are the policy rules of the government. if people are rational,then, when these rules change, and if the change is correctly perceived, theytake proper account of the change in adjusting their behavior. the ratio-nal expectations hypothesis implies that changes in policy will in fact becorrectly perceiv ed up to a serially uncorrelated error. the lucas critique challenges macroeconometrics along two related paths. first, it suggests that existing models are useless for evaluatingprospective changes in policy; second, it suggests that existing models arenot accurate representations of even the current structure of the economy. journal of economic methodology ,vol. 1 (1994): 6580. reprinted by permission of taylor and francis ltd. 297

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 298 kevin d .h oover iwant to suggest that the rst path can be thought of as a denying that econometric models typically capture the true causal structure of the econ- omy, and that the second path can be thought of as denying that the modelsare identied in the econometricians usual sense. these are closely relatedideas, but they are not identical. christopher sims ( 1980 :1)faults large-scale econometric models for relying on incredible identifying restrictions; yetsims ( 1982 ;cf. hoover 1988a: 197202) asserts their usefulness, in a highly restricted sense, in evaluating alternative policies. the concept of cause and which concepts are appropriate in which cir- cumstances are hotly debated among some econometricians and economicmethodologists (see, e.g., granger 1980 ;leamer 1985 ;z e l lner 1979 ,and the supplement to the journal of econometrics 1988 ). the notion of cause as control, however, seems naturally appropriate in the debate over the lucas critique. roughly, a change in policy causes a change in the economy if thechange in policy can be used to control that aspect of the economy. i have argued elsewhere that a good rendering of this notion of causality is to befound in j. l. mackies ( 1980 )conditional analysis of causality. 1 mackie denes a cause to be an insufcient, non-redundant member of aset of unnecessary but sufcient conditions for the effect. this is often called the inus condition. simply put it says that acause is a critical part of one of the possibly numerous alternative combinations of circumstancesthat imply an effect. the details of mackies analysis are not important inthe current discussion. what is important is to notice that causal relationsare captured in this analysis by (contrary-to-fact) conditional propositions;that is, by statements of the form, if it were true that the economy was at fullemployment and the money supply increased by 10 percent, then it wouldbe true that prices would rise by 10 percent . such a proposition sustains ourbelief that increases in the money supply cause increases in the price level.yetits correctness is not challenged by our failure to observe the antecedents to be fullled. 2 the conditional analysis of causality is related to both invariance and control. consider a putatively correct conditional proposition whoseantecedents are not fullled. if it happens that when the antecedents are infact fullled, the conditional proposition is no longer correct, it was wrongtoassert it in the rst place. any conditional proposition asserts the exis- tence of a disposition. the properties of such a disposition cannot depend on whether or not it is in fact actualized. thus, a diamond is hard enoughtoscratch glass asserts a disposition. it is correct whether or not a diamond is ever used to scratch glass. but it would not be correct if hardness were

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 299 attributed to the diamond only when no one attempted to scratch glass. suchdispositions necessarily presuppose invariance. and the conditional analysis of causality is partly the assertion that causal relations are invarianttoattempts to use them to control the effects. policy interventions are then connected to effects in the economy through invariant causal relations. the lucas critique can thus be read as the claim that existing macroeconomet- ricmodels do not isolate causal relations i.e., they do not assert correct conditional propositions. aninus condition is not the complete cause of its effect. in general, we are interested in some inus conditions but wish not to pay direct attentiontoothers. both federal reserve policy and the institutional structure of wall street may be inus conditions of the term structure of interest rates; butabond trader is directly interested in fed policy and generally relegates institutional structure to what mackie calls the causal eld . the causal eldis simply the set of inus conditions, which either do not change or whichserve as boundary conditions for the problem at hand. t o say that a causalrelation is invariant to interventions of control leaves unstated the caveat, within a particular causal eld . inar e l a t e d paper (hoover 1990 ), i demonstrate that one can link mackies conditional analysis of causality with a characterization of causality in sys- tems of eq uations rst developed by herbert simon ( 1953 ). causality in a linear system of equations can be associated in simons analysis with block recursion between variables. 3avariable ordered ahead of another in the recursion is said to cause the other. since each equation can be thought of as aconditional proposition with its parameters and variables as antecedents, it is easy to surmise that some sort of mapping exists between mackiesanalysis and simons. simon demonstrates that when a system of equationsis causally ordered it is identied eco nometrically. the lucas critique can therefore also be seen as the claim that existing macroeconometric modelsare in fact not identied. 2. identication and causality models are formal representations that are meant to capture or mimic reality. causality can be dened within the context of the model as simon does oras a property of the world as mackie does. the distinction between causalrelations as they truly are and representations of them suggests that an important empirical problem is how we might infer from data what theunderlying causal relations are; that is, how we might learn how our formal

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 300 kevin d .h oover representations should be constructed or, given a tentative model, how we might check whether it has been constructed satisfactorily. the invariance property of causal relations might be exploited as a source of information.ifmodels prove to be invariant to a wide class of interventions, such as changes in policy or in institutional structure, we have some grounds for tentatively accepting them as representations of the true causal structure at least within the limits of the particular causal eld justied by the rangeof the interventions. equally, even if we do not postulate a causal model,wemay by observing the behavior of statistical relations between observable variables under known interventions still be able to discern some of thecausal links that any satisfactory model must represent. these two approaches to learning about causal relations by means of the invariance property that is, testing models and seeking restrictive criteriafor any satisfactory model are quite different, although not necessarilycompetitive. both are strategies to secure invariance in economic models and, thus, to lend support to the attribution of verisimilitude to them.in sect ion3below we will examine both approaches under the headings aprior ism and econometrics as observation . the lucas critique and the new classical worldview generally suggest that a strong argument against the observational approach to assessing causal rela-tions is that observed regularities are not autonomous but merely derivative.newclassical economists argue that, since some of the important variables in the true causal ordering such as expectational variables, are intrinsicallyunobservable, observable statistical relations cannot be autonomous. fur- thermore, even the true causal relations will be complicated, especially if,as is an article of faith among the new classicals, people use all the availableinformation economically. thus, they argue that it is the a priori approachwhich has the best hope of success, because it is only if one knows how tospecify the linkages among observable variables, including those implied bytheir statistical relations to unobservable variables, that invariance can everbe observed. tothe econometrician, perhaps the most important obstacle to estimat- ing models of economic processes is the so-called identication problem .the root of the problem is this: economic theory uses variables to describeeconomic processes which are not observable; observable variables are theoutcome of interactions among these unobservables; and without furtherinformation it is, in general, not possible to infer the behavior of the unob-servables from the observables. the paradigm identication problem is thesimple system in which desired or planned supply is an increasing function

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 301 of price alone and desired or planned demand is a decreasing function of price alone. t ogether these functions determine an equilibrium observ-able outcome the amount sold. the identication problem is that fromobserving this single price quantity combination, one cannot infer what theunderlying functions are. the problem is no easier in the presence of randomshocks to the functions; the single observed point is then simply replaced byascatter of points randomly distributed about the equilibrium. if we have enough additional information, say that the variance of the random shockstothe supply curve is much greater than that to the demand curve or that supply is also a function of, say, rainfall, then it may be possible to inferthe shape of the underlying functions (subject to some random error), inthis case because the movements of the supply curve from random shocksor variability in rainfall force the observed price quantity combinations totrace out the demand curve. the lucas critique is a variation on the theme of the identication prob- lem. just as we nd observed price quantity patterns (a point, a scatter oraline, depending on the nature of the actual underlying relation) jumping about when underlying but unaccounted for factors, such as the level ofrainfall, change, we notice that estimated (presumed) behavioral functions appear not to be stable in the face of policy changes not accounted for inthe estimate. when seen in this light, the lucas critique clearly did not orig-inate with lucas and deserves to bear his name only because he broughtthe invariance problem home to most economists more forcibly than anyearlier author and because it serves as a convenient shorthand. lucas ( 1976 )himself claims no originality for the non-invariance argu- ment, suggesting that it is implicit in the work of frank knight, miltonfriedman and john muth. lucas does not, however, notice the explicit statement in trygve haavelmos famous paper, the probability approach ineconometrics ( 1944 ). haavelmo compares the estimation of simple econo- metric relations to working out the relation between the amount of throttleand the speed of a car on a at track und er uniform conditions. the relation may be precise; but change the surrounding conditions (e.g., take the car offthe track or allow the engine to get out of tune), and the relation will almostcertainly break down. haavelmo ( 1944 :28) contrasts the lack of autonomy of such empirical regularities with such things as the laws of thermodynamics,friction and so forth, which are autonomous because they describe the func-tioning of some parts of the mechanism irrespective of what happens in some other parts . what haavelmo suggests, in the terminology of zellner ( 1979 ), is that non-autonomous relations are not lawlike; they do not represent the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 302 kevin d .h oover underlying causal ordering. it will not do to overstate the case; so haavelmo goes on to argue that autonomy is a matter of degree. again this can berephrased: a causal ordering is claimed to be invariant only with respect to aparticular causal eld, which may itself be of a broad or a narrow com- pass. in some cases, then, it may be useful to see the non-invariance of arelation (in the car example, for instance) as a change in the causal eld. haavelmo does not himself state the invariance problem in terms of repre- senting causal relations, but simon ( 1953 :257) puts it in exactly such terms and is, therefore, another precursor of lucas. simon ( 1953 :27) writes: causal ordering is a property of models that is invariant with respect to interventions within the model, and structural equations are equations that correspond to specied possibilities of intervention. butitisprecisely this same notion of intervention, and this same distinction between structural and nonstructural equations, that lies at the root of the identiability conc ept. although lucas was not the rst to recognize the invariance problem explicitly, his own important contribution to it is to observe that one of the relations frequently omitted from putative causal representations is that of the formation of expectations. he notes, further, that the formation of expectations may depend upon peoples understanding of the causal struc- ture of the economy in general and of the process of policy formation inparticular. this is why the rational expectations hypothesis is often linkedwith the lucas critique. the important point about the analysis of non- invariance provided by haavelmo and simon is to remind us that rationalexpectations is simply one means by which causal relations may be linked; and, in general, it is the omission of any causal relation related to those remaining that produces non-invariance. 4lucas and his predecessors have, then, diagnosed a problem for economic analysis. we must now turn toproposed cures. 3. strategies for securing invariance apriorism the invariance problem can be treated in two complementary ways: as aproblem of representing causal relations or as a problem of identiability.indiscussing the problem of securing identication, econometric textbooks recommend that restrictions be imposed a priori on the basis of economic theory. 5thus, the second approach explains why the most frequently pro- posed strategy for securing invariance in econometric models subject to the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 303 lucas critique is to structure such models around restrictions deduced a priori from economic theory. this apriorism is the received view of two gen- erations of economists. apriorism comes in two forms strong and weak. strong apriorism can be traced back to tjalling koopmans attack, in hispaper, measurement without theory ( 1947 ), on the atheoretical methods of wesley mitchell and his colleagues at the national bureau of economicresearch, the strong apriorist view has been forcibly restated by thomas f. cooley and stephen f. leroy ( 1985 ). they argue that work by the cowles commission in the 1940s particularly by simon and koopmans estab- lished the need to impose identifying restrictions on econometric equationsif estimates of structural parameters are to be obtained. furthermore, theyargue that such restrictions are untestable. the only basis one can pos-sibly have for imposing them, therefore, is that they are derived from awell-articulated theory acceptable a priori. by theory cooley and leroy seem to mean a well-specied, consisten toptimization problem. they go on to observe that the rational expectations hypothesis, which often gen-erates a high degree of interdependence between variables in theoreticalmodels, suggests that even economic theory cannot provide the restrictionsneeded to identify large-scale macroeconometric models. in this they areat one with lucas and sargent and other new classical economists, whoargue that, only if economic theories are grounded in well-specied opti-mization problems, taking tastes and technology alone as given, will they besecure from the invariance problem (lucas and sargent 1979 ;lucas 1981 : introduc tion). the econometric analogue of the apriorists belief in the dominance of economic theory is the familiar view that the objective signicance of an econometric result varies with the means by which that result is obtained.on this view, good econometrics starts with a hypothesis derived from theorywhich dictates certain expected signs and signicance levels of coefcients.itthen estimates a regression and checks whether the result accords with the a priori expectation if yes, ne; if no, back to the theoretical drawingboard. 6bad econometrics tries out arbitrary (i.e., atheoretical) specica- tions until the results suit the investigators prior beliefs. the strong aprior-ists view of econometrics has the implausible, counterintuitive result that,if i happen to estimate a conrming regression at the rst go, my theory issupported; while, if you stumble on to the same estimate after data-mining ,your (perhaps identical) theory should be neither supported nor rejected. objectivity in any science should require that the identity of the investigator not affect the signicance of an empirical observation. if the regression inquestion happened to be an exact replica of the process which generated

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 304 kevin d .h oover the actual economic data, it would be ludicrous to accept it when it was arrived at by a rst lucky guess and not when it was obtained by trial anderror. apriorism is deeply ingrained in recent economic thinking. y et many economists would not wish to adopt so strong a view as the new classi-cals seem to require. it is difcult to insist emphatically on the priority ofeconomic theory when it is appreciated that there is no unanimity amongeconomic theorists. most, though not all, economists agree that economictheory should be grounded in a walrasian general equilibrium approachfounded on optimization by individual economic agents. there is less agree-ment on the use of the rational expectations hypothesis, although it is a com-mon assumption. the consensus over what constitutes an adequate basis foreconomic theory does not rest on overwhelming empirical support. 7indeed, the strong apriorist denies that such support is, forthcoming. rather, theconsensus rests upon the tacit agreement of theorists trained and working in aparticular framework. peirce ( 1957 :chapter 5, esp. p. 196) calls such tacit agreement within a community the method of public opinion for xingbelief. he goes on to observe, however, that beliefs xed by public opinionwithin a community frequently come unstuck when there is contact with another community with conicting beliefs. in economics, communitiesmay be dened by their purposes or the circumstances in which they work.itis well known how the changes in the purposes of economic policy in the face of stagation in the early 1970s and the apparent failure of macroecono-metric model to predict the course of economic events broke the consensusin macroeconomics and spawned alternative approaches of which new clas-sicism was the most prominent theoretically. the new classical strategy inthe face of the lucas critique and the events of the 1970s is not to give upthe search for invariance, but to broaden the scope of the search, and tofound it on strong a priori principles. two principles are fundamental: thatagents knowledge is systemic i.e., it is based on, at least, implicit under-standing of the true structure of the economy (rational expectations); andthat agents are continuous and successful (to a serially uncorrelated randomdeviation) optimizers (lucas and sargent 1979 :3049). imposing such prin- ciples results in models for which the consequences of policy changes canbe derived. such models can then be empirically tested. the difculty with this strategy is that it provides neither guidance on how toproceed nor leeway to adjust assumptions, if the data are widely at vari- ance with the models predictions. the new classical organizing principlesare uncontradictable. 8suchprinciples are either not binding, because obser- vationally identical results are just as well generated from other principles,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 305 or too constraining, because they rule out adjustments to the model which might reect possible, but perhaps irrational behavior. the problem withstrong apriorism as a research strategy is principally that it does not nat-urally lead to a progressive development of models or knowledge. and, infact, new classicism has not been able to offer a compelling alternative devicefor making economic predictions to the battered but stalwart communityof macromodellers. for however great the inuence of new classicism, andespecially of the rational expectat ions hypothesis, on economic theory, it has not delivered any decisive empirical results. ascooley and leroy recognize, the thorough-going optimization implicit in new classicism suggests that everything depends on everythingelse, not just in theory, but in practice. such complete interdependence sug-gests that theory does not provide sufcient restrictions to identify structuralmodels. this shows up in the problem of observational equivalence: theoret-ical models which are antithetical neve rtheless imply identical observational consequences (e.g., sargent 1976 ). in the face of such a difculty, cooley and leroy retreat to theory, giving up hope of securing identication unless;there is a theoretical breakthrough. others have given up theory and asked,what can be learned from the data alone? 9 the weak apriorist goes to neither of these extremes. instead he recognizes that belief and inference stand in a relationship of mutuality: inferences arefounded partly on unexamined beliefs; but these inferences, in turn, maysuggest the modication of those beliefs. thus, theory presents us withsome a priori (in the sense of not currently questioned) restrictions on empirical investigation; while the empir ical results help generate beliefs (or new theories) which are prior to furthe rinvestigations. haavelmo expresses the essentials of weak apriorism clearly: howcan we actually distinguish between the original system and a derived system ...?that is not a problem of mathematical independence or the like; more generally, it is not a problem of pure logic, but a problem of actually knowing some- thing about the real phenomena, and of making realistic assumptions about them. intrying to establish relations with a high degree of autonomy we take into consid- eration various changes in the economic structure which might upset our relations, wetrytodig down to such relationships as actually might be expected to have a degree of invariance with respect to certain changes in structure that are reasonable . (haavelmo 144: 29) the objection to the new classical strategy of strong apriorism is not that it involves non-empirical principles (beliefs) all empirical research does that. rather, it is that it is committed so strongly to these beliefs that it doesnot permit them to adjust in the interplay of theorizing with the testing of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 306 kevin d .h oover theories. the strength of weak apriorism is precisely that it recognizes the need for such interplay. econometrics as observation the strong apriorist sets a formidable task for empirical economics. the titleof koopmanss attack on atheoretical economics suggests that econometrics,following a strict reading of its etymology, is concerned with the directmeasurement of structures suggested by economic theory to be replicasof economic reality. but such a task is, as the weak apriorist suggests, notpracticable unless we already have a good idea of what constraints realityplaces on the structures that we wish to measure. measurement requiresprior theory; equally, theory requires prior measurement. that this circle seems vicious is the result of the apriorist failing to observe acritical distinction. haavelmo distinguishes between autonomous relations, which are invariant to a wide range of interventions, and (adapting a termfrom ragnar frisch) conuent relations, which are the result of (complex) interactions of autonomous relations. conuent relations may appear sta-ble until subjected to interventions. haavelmos autonomous relations areessentially the same as what the econometricians hendry and richard ( 1982 ) call the data-generating process :that is, the true, but unknown and unob- servable description of how the data came to take on particular values. drawing this distinction forces us to recognize that only on the mer- est chance would we estimate a relation structurally identical to the data-generating process. only on such a chance would we directly measure theunderlying reality. and, what is more, since nothing in our estimate certiesits truthlikeness, we would never be completely sure that we had estimatedthe data-generating process. in general, we must assume that we estimateconuent relations. regressions and other econometric results are, rst and foremost, cal- culations, summaries of observable data. economists customarily speak ofthese calculations as good , bad , valid and invalid . given the distinctionbetween the data-generating process and conuent relations, it would bemore to the point to think of these econometric calculations themselves asobservations of the conuent relations. as such they may be illuminatingor useful or neither, but not valid or invalid. ananalogy may make the point clearer. astronomers use telescopes to observe the planets. the observations made with telescopes are not valid orinvalid, but in focus or out of focus and, therefore, useful or not useful. thestandard by which the usefulness of an astronomical observation is to be

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 307 judged varies with what one seeks to observe. filters that allow ultraviolet light to be singled out may wreck the normal visual spectrum. whether ornot this is good depends upon whether one wants to see ultraviolet andnot green or blue. econometric calculations are the economists telescope,and the restrictions implicit in the specication of a regression, for exam-ple, act like the ultraviolet lter. the observations made with econometriccalculations are observations of conuent relations, the consequences of the(probably) unknown data-generating process. as such they are the grist forthe mill of theory. they are what theory must explain. theory may in turnsuggest new restrictions on econometric calculations as likely to be moreilluminating than the initial ones. the ideal theory, nevertheless, explainsnot only these new results, but allobservations that is, it encompasses them. the strong apriorist view that econometrics should measure the coefcientsof the data-generating process is clearly untenable. it amounts to the samething as suggesting that astronomers directly observe newtons laws withtheir telescopes, rather than the complex consequences for the planets ofthose laws. the view adopted here that econometrics is best thought of as the obser- vation of conuent relations shades into weak apriorism. it differs mainlyin that it distinguishes sharply, as the weak apriorist does not, between theunobservable, but ultimately constraining, data-generating process and theobserved conuent relations. haavelmo, for example, treats autonomy ineconometric relations as a matter of degree. similarly, zellner identies law- likeness with invariance to a broad range of circumstances and boundaryconditions. 10this may be a good standard for law-likeness ,b u t on the present view an actual lawis distinguished in kind from such empirical relations by being an element of the data-generating process itself. the analogy between econometrics and observational sciences such as astronomy suggests that criteria are needed to determine when an econo-metric calculation will be useful. t hat is, rules for focusing the telescope are needed. such rules themselves are derived from theory for the mostpart theory that both is not currently under scrutiny and is supplemental tothe main investigation. thus, a crude rule for focusing a telescope might be that the edges of the object in view should be sharply dened. this followsfrom the theory of optics that light travels in straight lines and from thepresupposition that the object in view is in fact solid. were the more centralastronomical theory to suggest that the object in view was a gaseous cloudwith poorly dened edges, optical theory might in turn suggest maximiz- ing the received light as a focusing criterion. theory, therefore, may modify

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 308 kevin d .h oover observational strategy. on the other hand, it may have been the impossibility of observing sharp edges which suggested the modications to the theorythat generated such a change in strategy. the process is mutual. it wouldbe absurd to give the central theory as dominant a role as strong apriorismdemands. this would be equivalent to requiring galileo to have had a theoryof lunar geology before accepting that he had observed what we now knowtobe mountains on the moon. theory governs our interpretation of what weobserve; but its absence does not prevent us from observing something that needs interpretation and explanation. statistical theory provides the econometric equivalent of the focusing rule for the telescope. the basis for widely accepted criteria is the verisimilitude ofan econometric specication or model with the data-generating process. 11 notknowing the actual process, we can nevertheless say that a model cannot resemble it unless its errors are random that is unless the part that we cannot explain is, at least provisionally, unexplainable, the model cannot becalled truthlike. typical criteria for randomness are: estimated errors shouldbe white noise (i.e., not correlated with their own past equivalently, theyshould have no autocorrelation); errors should be innovations (i.e., notcorrelated with other variables omitted from the model); and errors should be homoscedastic (i.e., of constant variance). if errors do not possess theseproperties, then it should be possible to formulate a different model thatis better in the sense of having a lower variance and encompassing the rstmodel. (in this case encompassing means providing a basis for calculating what the coefcients and variance of the other model would be without infact estimating it.) in addition, on weak assumptions, statistical theory leads us to expect errors to be approximately normally distributed. just as in astronomy, theory may also guide econometric observations. atthe crudest level, theory suggests potential variables. it also requires that models not imply values out of the range of possible observations.aconsumption function, for instance, must not generate predictions of negative consumption. on a higher plane, we may impose restrictions fromeconomic theory on econometric estimates and test these restrictions againstmore general models. if they are accepted, then theory aids in understandingthe signicance of the observation; if not, the observation may suggest whatelement of the theory is unsatisfactory. another requirement is stability of coefcient estimates. like consistency with theory, this criterion is on a different plane from the need for random errors. the very concept of randomness unexplainability justies it asanecessary condition of verisimilitude. there is no necessary connection between stability and the true data-generating process. economic reality

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 309 no doubt changes perhaps, even so frequently that stability is not to be found. nevertheless, econometric observations would be practically uselessif they were completely unstable. we must, therefore, count on ndingsome stability and on supplementing ec onometric observations with other information, say institutional facts, if we are to distinguish between realchanges in structure and our own inability to focus our observations. the criterion of consistency with theory is subject to similar strictures. it isuseful only in that it aids interpretation of observations. we must not joinstrong apriorism in affording it overarching status. observations must givegrounds for reconsidering theoretical commitments. 4. realism versus nominalism inadopting the view that econometrics is an observational tool, we take what is best from weak apriorism, while avoiding the pitfalls of strong apri-orism. our research strategy is progressive, because our observations arealways known to be provisional, subject to improvement on grounds of bet-terstatistical technique or better theoretical interpretability, and because our commitment to a particular theory is not so strong as to preclude mod-ication in the face of observations. inadopting econometrics as observation we also implicitly commit our- selves to metaphysical realism, abjuring the nominalism implicit in strongapriorism. by nominalism i mean the philosophical doctrine that only indi-viduals are real and that general relations (e.g., causality) do not exist inde- pendently of the observer. 12the desire to avoid metaphysics is strong among most economists, having been brought up on the philosophy of logical posi-tivism. but metaphysics cannot be avoided; it can only be done well or badly(cf. peirce 1957 :53, 292, 293). a thorough discussion of nominalism and realism would take us too far down a philosophical byway. the nominalism of apriorist econometricians nonetheless presents a practical difculty fortheir analysis. simon ( 1953 :246) noticed that any set of data could be represented by many incompatible causal structures. such non-uniqueness is not a propertyof simons representation alone. indeed, sims ( 1977 )shows in a set-theoretic analysis that a wide class of formal representations suffers from a similar lackof uniqueness. the most common view among econometricians is that theproblem of non-uniqueness can be avoided only by a priori commitmentstocertain restrictions on allowable representations. this problem arises from nominalism, which fails to distinguish between the relation as it exists in the world and the representation of it or the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 310 kevin d .h oover operational means of inferring it. so long as causality is seen as a relation which exists only because it is imposed by the observer, few restrictions willbe placed upon acceptable formalisms; and even these few will arise in apriori commitments, not from observed reality. realism is the contrary doctrine to nominalism: namely, that general relations exist independently of the observer in the objects . 13realism is the foundation of the conditional analysis of causality. for without it, counter-factuals do not make sense. the nominalist mach writes: the universe isnot twice given, with an earth at rest and an earth in motion; but only oncewith its relative motions, alone determinate. it is accordingly, not permit- tedustosayhow things would be if the earth did not rotate (mach 1941 : 284; cf. simon 1952 :56). the realist objects that as we perfectly understand counterfactual claims, the nominalist is in no position to forbid them. the world is,inasense, twice given. it is because we assume that certain causal relations exist in the objects that we are justied in making predictions. if we can predict on the basis of our understanding of what causal relations are,then we can equally well say what would have happened had antecedentsbeen different. the world is twice given in the sense that our representationof the causal relations in it is not an arbitrary categorization, but a betteror worse replica of the actual causal relations in the world. hence, a coun-terfactual claim is sustained if it can be deduced from our representation (model or theory) on the assumption that antecedents are different fromwhat they were in fact. the counter factual claim, then, stands or falls with the satisfactoriness of our model or theory at truly representing the world.even though such claims are simply formal deductions from our models or theories, they are nonetheless claims about the real world, not about ourmodels. strong apriorism, either as an answer to the invariance problem or as aguide to good econometrics, adopts the nominalistic position that only particular facts are real and that general relations are not there to be found bythe shrewd observer, but are imposed from without. it is the extraordinaryview that theory is paramount and binds reality, rather than reality placing constraints upon what an acceptable theory would look like. on the strong apriori view, deductions from a theory may be disconrmed, but such disconrmation does not touch the theoretical core of the theory; it merelysuggests that the optimization problem was not fully specied. the strong apriorist believes that economic observations are secure only if they areguided by a priori theory; but what is it that is supposed to make theorysecure if it is not economic observation?

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 311 econometrics as observation, in contrast, is grounded in realism. the econometrician does not impose restrictions but tries to learn in what way data constrain theories. the distinction between the model as a more or lessgood replica and the world is maintained. and the autonomy of the causalstructure of the world is not questioned. the problem is not to decide howthe world must be to agree with theoretical principles, but to discover howit is in fact. the difcult problem of how to tell whether or not our theory is a good replica remains, but it is separate from the problem of whether causal rela- tions are our own creations or are in the objects. university of california, davis notes this paper is a revised version of working paper no. 33 of the research program in applied macroeconomics and macro policy, university of california, davis.ia mg r a t e f u lf o r the comments of thomas mayer, peter oppenheimer, edward leamer, thomas cooley, stephen leroy, and steven sheffrin. 1.hoover (1988b). mackies analysis is also explored in addison etal.(1980a,b ) and hammond (1986). 2.isaythat the conditional proposition sustains our inference, following mackie, and that it is correct rather than true to avoid becoming directly embroiledin sharp debate between philosophers over how or whether truth values can beassigned to conditional propositions (see hoover, 1988b: 6, esp. fn 7). 3.generalizing beyond the linear even to very general mappings between variablesis relatively easy; see mesarovic ( 1969 ), katzner ( 1983 ): chapter 6 and hoover (1990 ): 2324. 4.apoint rediscovered by buiter ( 1980 ), who observes that policy non-invariance requires only that agents take some account of policy rules, not that they have ratio nal expectations. 5.forexample, johnston ( 1972 ): sections 12.212.4; the source for most textbook treatments of identiability is koopmans ( 1950 ). 6.avariation on this theme is the pre-test estimator, which penalizes the statistical signicance levels according to the amount of search engaged in; see judge etal. (1980 ): chapter 3 and leamer ( 1978 ): chapter 5. 7.this proposition is amply documented for general equilibrium theory inweintraub ( 1983 ). 8.this is admitted for the market-clearing assumption, see lucas and sargent(1979 ): 31012. 9.e.g., sims ( 1980 ). despite the unsatisfactory nature of their own response, cooley and leroys criticism of the equivocations and invalid deductions drawn from vector autoregressions by sims and others remains correct andimportant.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 312 kevin d .h oover 10.inkeeping with its empiricist spirit, engle etal.(1983 ): 285 identies strong exo- geneity (weak exogeneity plus invariance) with zellner-causality (predictability according to law). 11.fuller explanations and defence of these criteria are found in the writings of hendry and his colleagues; see, e.g., hendry and richard ( 1982 ), hendry ( 1983 ), ericsson and hendry ( 1984 ). 12.goodman and quine ( 1947 )isac lassic statement of the nominalist point of view; while peirce ( 1957 ): chapters 1, 2, 4 and ( 1934 ): chapter 10, argues strongly against it, in favor of realism. 13.this phrase is humes ( 1888 [1739] :88; see mackie 1980 :chapter 1). the philo- sophical doctrine of realism is expounded by peirce (see n. 1, above) and pre-sented as a basis for the philosophy of science by newton-smith ( 1981 ). refere nces addison, john t., burton, john and t orrance, thomas s. (1980a) on the causation of ination , manchester school 48 (2): 14056. (1980b) on the causation of ination: some further clarications , manchester school 49 (4): 3556. buiter, william (1980) the macroeconomics of dr. pangloss: a critical survey of the new classical macroeconomics , economic journal 90 (357), 3450. cooley, thomas f. and leroy, stephen f. (1985) atheoretical macroeconometrics: a critique , journal of monetary economics 16 (3): 283308. engle, robert f., hendry, david f. and richard, jean-francois (1983) exogeneity , econometrica 51 (2): 277304. ericsson, neil r. and hendry, david f. (1984) conditional econometric modelling: an application to new house prices in the united kingdom , unpublished typescript, nufeld college, 31 august. goodman, nelson and quine, w. v . o. (1947) steps towards a constructive nominalism , journal of symbolic logic 12 (4): 10522. granger, c. w. j. (1980) t esting for causality: a personal viewpoint , journal of economic dynamics and control 2(4): 32952. haavelmo, trgyve (1944) the probability approach in econometrics , econometrica 12 (supplement, july). hammond, j. daniel (1986) monetarist and antimonetarist causality , research in the history of thought and methodology 4: 10926. hendry, david f. (1983) econometric modelling: the consumption function in retro- spect , scottish journal of political economy 30 (3): 193220. hendry, david f. and richard, jean-francois (1982) on the formulation of empirical models in dynamic econometrics , annals of applied econometrics ,19823 (supple- ment to the journal of econometrics on model specication ), halbert white (ed.) 20: 333. hoover, kevin d. (1988) the new classical macroeconomics: a sceptical inquiry ,o xford; basil blackwell. (1990) the logic of causal inference , economics and philosophy 6(2): 20734. hume, david. (1888 [1739]) atreatise of human nature ,oxford: clarendon press.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 313 johnston, j. (1972) econometric methods ,s e c o n de d i t ion, new y ork: mcgraw hill. journal of econometrics (1988) causality annals 19823 (supplement), dennis j. aigner and arnold zellner (eds), vol. 39. judge, george g., grifths, william e., hill, r. carter and lee, tsoung-chao (1980) the theory and practice of econometrics ,n e wy o r k :j ohn wiley. katzner, donald w. (1983) analysis without measurement ,cambridge: cambridge uni- versity press. koopmans, tjalling c. (1947) measurement without theory , reviewofeconomics and statistics 29 (2): 16172. (1950) when is an equation complete for statistical purposes , in koopmans (ed.) statistical inference in dynamic economic models ,n e wy o r k :j ohn wiley; london: chapman hall, pp. 393409. leamer, edward e. (1978) specication searches: ad hoc inference with nonexperimental data,n e wy o r k :j ohn wiley. (1985) vector autoregressions for causal inference? , in karl brunner and allan h. meltzer (eds) understanding monetary regimes ,carnegie-rochester conference series on public policy, vol. 22. lucas, robert e., jr (1976) econometric policy evaluations: a critique , in karl brunner and allan h. meltzer (eds) the phillips curve and labor markets ,carnegie-rochester conference series on public policy, vol. 1. amsterdam: north holland, pp. 1946. (1981) studies in business-cycle theory ,oxford: basil blackwell. lucas, robert e., jr and sargent, thomas j. (1979) after keynesian macroeconomies , reprinted in lucas and sargent (1981), pp. 295320. lucas, robert e., jr and sargent, thomas j. (eds) (1981) rational expectations and econometric practice ,l o n d o n : george allen unwin. mach,ernst (1941) the science of mechanics ,l as a l le, ill.: open court. mackie, j. l. (1980) the cement of the university: a study in causation ,o xford: clarendon press. mesarovic, mihajlo d. (1969) mathematical theory of general systems and some eco- nomic problems , in h. w. kuhn and g. p . szeg o( eds)mathematical systems and economics i ,berlin: springer-verlag, pp. 93116. newton-smith, w. h. (1981) the rationality of science ,l o n d o n : routledge kegan paul. peirce, charles s. (1934) collected papers ,vol. 6, cambridge, mass.: belknap press. (1957) collected papers ,vol. 7, cambridge, mass.: belknap press. sargent, thomas j. (1976) the observational equivalence of natural and unnatural rate theories of macroeconomics , reprinted in lucas and sargent (1981), pp. 55362. simon, herbert a. (1952) on the denition of the causal relation , reprinted as chapter 3inh.a.simon (1957) mode ls of man ,n e wy o r k :j ohn wiley. (1953) causal ordering and identiability , reprinted as chapter 1 of simon (1957), mode ls of man ,n e wy o r k :j ohn wiley. sims, christopher a. (1977) exogeneity and causal ordering in macroeconomic models , newm ethods of business cycle research: proceedings of a conference ,minneapolis: federal reserve bank of minneapolis, pp. 2344. (1980) macroeconomics and reality , econometrica 48 (1): 148. (1982) policy analysis with econometric models , brookings papers on economic activity (1): 10752.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 314 kevin d .h oover weintraub, e. roy. (1983) on the existence of a competitive equilibrium: 19301954 , journal of economic literature 21 (1): 139. zellner, arnold a. (1979) causality and econometrics , karl bruner and allan h. meltzer (eds) three aspects of policy making: knowledge, data and institutions ,c a r negie- rochester conference series oh public policy, vol. 10. amsterdam: north-holland, pp. 954.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 seventeen does macroeconomics need microfoundations? kevin d .h o o v e r asiobserved in the rst lecture, i chose pissaridess model as a paradigm of the modern macroeconomic model for a variety of reasons: the clarity of its goals and exposition; the manner in which it attempted to relate itstheoretical construction to empirical facts (at least in principle); and, byno means the least important reason, because it was the model that nancycartwright held up as an example of a nomological machine in economics.anumber of fellow economists, however, question whether pissaridess model really is a macroeconomic model. because it appears to model the decision problem of the individual worker and the individual rm, someeconomists regard it as a microeconomic model. but this is all the better formypurposes because there is a persistent refrain in recent macroeconomics that the only acceptable macroeconomic models are those that have adequatemicrofoundations. the idea of microfoundations did not originate with the new classical macroeconomics, but the manner in which the new classical macroeco-nomics has dominated the agenda of macroeconomics over the past quartercentury has rmly cemented it in the minds of virtually all economists. lucas puts it clearly when he longs for an economics that does not need the prexesmicro or macro sound economics is held to be microeconomics, and any macroeconomics that is not just a shorthand for the manner in whichmicroeconomics is applied to certain problems is held to be bad economics. 1 lucas advocates the euthanasia of macroeconomics and has spent most of his career supplying pills to hasten the demise of the once proud modelsof the macroeconomic era. it has taken time, but we have reached the pointat which there are graduate students for whom john hickss is lm model pages 5789 of the methodology of empirical macroeconomics ,b yk e v i nd .h o o v er. copyright c circlecopyrt2001 cambridge university press. reprinted bypermission of cambridge university press. 315

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 316 kevin d .h oover is just a dim memory from an undergraduate textbook and whose rst lecture in their graduate macroeconomics courses began with a hamiltoniandescribing the dynamic optimization problem of what appears to be anindividual agent. gradually, undergraduate textbooks are following suit,and even the econometric forecasting models of the united states federalreserve system have undergone surgery to remove the is lm model that once was the beating heart of their more than two hundred equation system.that the profession has sworn allegiance to the ideal of microfoundationsis beyond doubt. the question before us is whether they are right to do so. some history the earliest empirical economics is macroeconomics. the word eco-nomics derives from a greek word meaning the management of the house-hold. the earliest name for our subject, political economy, consciouslydrew the analogy between the management of the household and the man-agement of the state. but the politics of the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-turies was somewhat different from the politics of the nineteenth, twentieth,and twenty-rst centuries. the transition to individualism was incomplete,and it was not uncommon for the political theorists of the day to thinkmore of the social hierarchy as king, aristocracy, merchants, farmers, peas-ants, and so forth with little regard to the role of the individual. the earlystatistical researches of william petty, gregory king, and charles davenantwereaimed not at understanding the economic behavior of particular people but at determining the capacities of england and ireland to support the mil-itary ambitions of the english king. the models of franc ois quesnay and the physiocrats, which bear many structu raland methodological resemblances tomodern macroeconomic models, went a step further. again, appealing to the division of french society into broad classes (nobility, farmers, artisans),they gave normative advice to the french king on how to direct the economyin a manner that would enlarge his military capabilities. the macroeconomic models of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries werenot supplanted all at once in a wave of individualism. the seeds had tobe planted. the beginning of wisdom was the notion promoted by adam smith and the great scottish political economists that the source of social welfare was the individual welfare of the ordinary man. we are so used to the idea that economics is about harnessing individual self-interest for socialharmony and to attributing this idea to smith, that we forget how limitedwerehis claims for individualism. we remember the invisible hand, but this image appears only once in the wealth of nations ,i nt h ec o ntext of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 317 foreign trade (and in two other instances in smiths noneconomic works). bernard mandeville, early in the eighteenth century, in the fable of the bees,put the point that private vice (greed) could promote public virtue far more clearly than did smith. but smith took a dim view of mandeville.smith, david ricardo, and the other classical economists were mainly con- cerned with market phenomena, and the individual played a relatively weak analytical and empirical role in their arguments. with marginalism in the middle of the nineteenth century, the analytical ground shifts more clearly to the individual, but market phenomena remain the focus of william stanley jevons and the english political economists. itis in the work of the french economists augustin cournot and leon walrasthat the individual is truly made the analytical center of economics and theproblem of how individuals coordinate socially, usually ascribed to smith,takes center stage. the political philosophy of the late nineteenth century is marked by debates over the relative explanatory role of individualism versus superindi-vidual categories. marxists led the way. for them, classes determine men, rather than men determining classes. (y et, one should note that karl marxs economics owed its analytical framework to smith and ricardo and sowas tainted, at least as far as they went with it, by individualism.) aus-trian economics presented a clear contrast in which carl menger and, in the twentieth century, ludwig von mises, friedrich von hayek, and oth-ers espoused methodological individualism :the doctrine that the only well- grounded explanations of social phenomena were ones that appealed to the actions and behaviors of individuals. english and american economics maintained an incomplete individual- ism. although alfred marshall managed to kill the political that had longmodied economy in the name of our discipline, his object was more torefocus attention on the analytics of the subject rather than on the appli- cations. (the term political economy has been reborn in the past twentyyears, though it conveys a very different sense now than it did in smiths time.) marshall discussed the particular rm and the particular worker orconsumer. but, like his english and scottish forefathers, he did so mainly to illuminate markets. the analyzed individual is meant to typify individualsin general. it is to marshall, with his discussion of the representative rm,that we owe the idea of the representative agent. 2still, marshalls markets are not economy-wide, but are focused on particular products. economics by1930 appears mainly to be microeconomics. y et, the proto-macroeconomicsof the earlier time did not completely vanish. it is clearly evident in theo-retical discussions of money, especially of the quantity theory, which never

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 318 kevin d .h oover succeeded in nding adequate grounding in individual analysis. and it is evident in empirical discussions of business cycles, which were regarded as economy-wide phenomena. so things stood in the mid-1930s, when john maynard keynes was writing thegeneral theory. keynes did not invent macroeconomics, nor did he use the term. (as far as i can discover, ragnar frisch was the rst to use theterm,in1931, though it became current only after the second world war.) 3 keynes, nevertheless, claried the distinction between what we now call macroeconomics and microeconomics and made it possible for us to askthe question, how are the two related? as is evident in his discussion of theconsumption function (the marginal propensity to consume follows from afundamental psychological law), investment (entrepreneurs optimize with respect to opportunity costs), and the demand for money (speculators anticipate capital gains or losses), keynes follows marshall in looking to theindividual decision problem for illumination. these appeals to individualbehavior remain in the service of aggregate explanations. despite the fact largely ignored in potted histories that he stresses the heterogeneity ofindividual responses as a central feature of aggregate behavior, keynes neverexplores the relationship between the individual and the aggregate in any really systematic way. microeconomics so dominated economic thinking in 1936 that the cry for microfoundations for the newly resurgent macroeconomics was almostimmediate. jacob viner and wassily leontief wrote microeconomic criti-cisms of the general theory . 4lawrence klein, in his keynesian revolution , thought it necessary to discuss the microeconomic underpinnings of theprincipal keynesian aggregate functions. 5the history of the rst twenty-ve years of postwar macroeconomics is largely the hanging of micro-economic esh on the skeleton of interpretation of keyness general theory formalized in hickss aggregate general-equilibrium, is lm model. james dusenberry,milton friedman, and franco modigliani tried to explain the microeco- nomics of consumption; william baumol and james t obin, the demand formoney; dale jorgenson, investment; don patinkin, labor; and so forth. 6 beginning with robert clowers dual-decision hypothesis and robert barro and herschel grossmans xed-price models, the urge for micro-foundations began to infect the ge neral-equilibrium framework. 7it is no longer enough that each function have an individualistic foundation; sinceindividuals are assumed to be making choices to generate each function sep-arately, those choices really ought to be coordinated and consistent. this is ahard problem with heterogeneous agents. the modern representative agent,which is essentially a homogeneity ass umption, made his appearance rst

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 319 in these models. at more or less the same time, lucas and leonard rapping began to model unemployment as an optimization problem. lucas madeconsistent optimization in general equilibrium the centerpiece of his mon- etary model published in the journal of economic theory in 1972. 8strictly speaking, this model is not a representative-agent model. y et, it is highly ide-alized and assumes that all individuals are fundamentally identical. fromthere, it is only a short step to the representative-agent models that havedominated new classical macroeconomics since the early 1970s. reductionism so much for a brief history of the movement for micro-foundations ineconomics. what are the intellectual roots of this urge to ground macroe-conomics in the individual? it has analogies in other sciences. the nature of scientic explanation is a hotly debated subject among philosophers andscientists. one plausible view is that a theory is explanatory when it achievesparsimony: if a complex phenomenon can be reduced to some smaller num-ber of governing principles, then we regard the complex phenomenon ashaving been explained. inthe eighteenth century the ideal gas laws were formulated. the boyle- charles law states that pv nrt, where pis pressure, vis volume, nis the number of moles of the gas, ris the universal gas constant, and tis temperature. as the name suggests this law is an idealization of the results of empirical observations and holds withah i g hd e g r e eo fa c c u r a c ya tm o d e r a t et e m p e r a t u r e s and low pressures. the gas law appears to be an approximate truth about physical reality, but nevertheless physicists were not happy with its sui generis quality. thesolution is found in the kinetic theory of gases, which provides an accountof the gas laws as a deduction from newtonian mechanics. the kinetic the-ory is also based on an idealization: the gas is assumed to be composed ofmolecules regarded as perfectly elastic point masses. with the added assump-tion that the velocities of the molecules are distributed according to a par-ticular random distribution that they are equally likely to move in everydirection it is possible to derive the gas laws. t emperature correspondstothe mean energy of the molecules and pressure to the mean momen- tum transferred by contact with the walls of the containing vessel. thekinetic theory of gases thus constitutes a redu ction of the macrophysical gas laws to the microphysical newtonian mechanics.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 320 kevin d .h oover notice two features of this reduction. the rst is that it is not micro all the way down. in addition to newtons laws, the kinetic theory relies on a statistical assumption that is, an implicitly macro assumption. also,notice that the categories that apply to newtons laws and to the gas lawsare very different. a single molecule has momentum and energy, but it doesnot have pressure or temperature. t o make the derivation work, it is nec-essary to identify aggregate properties of the collection of molecules (theiraverageenergy and momentum) as corresponding to the macro properties (temperature and pressure) that have quite different sensible characteristics.the phenomena of temperature and pressure can be thought of as emergent properties of the aggregation of molecules. reductionist strategies are pursued throughout science. recently, in biol- ogy, a lot of effort has been directed to reducing macrobiological phenomenatothe micro principles of genetics and organic chemistry. but even here, the effort is controversial, with one wag saying: the only way to reduce biologytochemistry is through death. 9the philosophical mind body problem has, in the age of neuroscience, also generated a debate over reductionism. theissue is whether mental states can be completely explained by knowledge ofbrain states. even if they could, the issue of the phenomenological differ-ence between the two levels is larger here than it is with respect to the gaslaws. seeing a beautiful woman does not seem to be the same kind of thingas any pattern of neuron rings. vision and, to a greater degree, aestheticappreciation appear to be emergent prop erties, even if there is a reduction. the situation is even more complex than that. y ou and i can see the same thing even though our brain states are not the same. similarly, you can seethe same thing at different times even though your brain state is different ateach time. there is no one-to-one mapping between the macro phenomenaof mind and the micro phenomena of brain states. this observation has ledtothe notion of supervenience. mental states are said to supervene on brain states in the sense that any time one could exactly reproduce a certain brainstate and collateral conditions, the same mental state would occur, eventhough that mental state may occur for other congurations of brain statesas well, and even though the appropriate phenomenological descriptionsof the mental state are completely different from those of the brain states.supervenience guarantees the autonomy of the macro level in the sense that it ensures that one can rationally use an independent language andcategories to describe the macro level and that one should not expect to ndunique deductions from the micro to the macro. y et, it also underscores theconnection between the micro and the macro: no macro state exists unless an appropriate micro state exists. supervenience has been offered both as a

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 321 way of eliminating the need for reduction and as a justication for a weaker form of reduction .w h i c hw a yo n el o oks at it partly depends on what one views as threatened. economics and methodological individualism so what about reductionism in econ omics? whether economic explanations must be reductive depends in part on how one denes economics. an older tradition denes it with respect to certain areas of human life. the classic denitions can be summarized in a word: plutology ,the science of wealth. john stuart mill writes: writers on political economy profess to teach, or to investigate, the nature of wealth, and the laws of its production and distribution: including, directly or remotely, the operation of all the causes which the condition of mankind, or of any society ofhuman beings, in respect to this universal ob ject of human desire, is made prosperous or the reverse. 10 similarly, alfred marshall writes: political economy or economics is a study of mankind in the ordinary business of life; it examines that part of individual and social action which is most closely connectedwith the attainment and with the use of the material requisites of wellbeing. thus it is on the one side a study of wealth; and on the other, and more important side, a part of the study of man. 11 modern economists almost all follow the much different denition of lionel robbins: economics is the science which studies human behaviour as a relationship betweenends and scarce means which have alternative uses. 12 economics is, in robbinss view, the science of choice. economics is, in modern terminology, microeconomics. once microeconomics is seen as dening the very nature of economics, any macroeconomic phenomenon will be seen to need a reductive expla-nation. of course, it is one thing to want such an explanation and quiteanother to have it. it is obviously impractical to dispense with measure-ments of temperature and pressure and to keep track of the velocities ofeach and every molecule even in a relatively small volume of gas. simi-larly, it is absurd to think that practical economics can trace the decisionsand constraints facing each individual agent in the economy. i call this thecour not problem ,because the rst clear statement of it is found in cournots

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 322 kevin d .h oover researches into the mathematical principles of the theory of wealth (1838). noone really denies the cournot problem; the only question is what to do about it. notice that the motivations for seeking a reduction are different in eco- nomics than they are in biological sciences. biologists are suspicious, for instance, of mental explanations because they involve intentional states: beliefs, purposes, desires, will, goals, and so forth. human mental life isteleological ;that is, it is directed to ends. the reduction of the mental to the neurological is appealing to scientists precisely because neurons, chemicals, molecules, genes, and such do not have ends or intentional states. reduc-tion banishes teleology. in economics, it is just the reverse. macroeconomicrelations, say as represented in okuns law, which relates changes in the unemployment rate to the growth rate of gross domestic product (gdp),are not obviously intentional anymore than the gas laws are. but if macroeco-nomic relations are regarded as the products of human action, this could beseen as a defect. the goal of reducing macroeconomics to microeconomicsis to recapture human intentions. reduction reclaims teleology. the difference is clear in what is probably the most inuential paper in macroeconomics in the postwar period: lucass econometric policyevaluation: a critique. 13lucas criticized the empirical macroeconomics of the day especially the large-scale macroe conometric forecasting models on the basis that their equations captured transitory correlations in thedata that would not remain stable in the face of changes in policy regimes.hisidea is that people make choices subject to constraints that include their best expectations of government policy. if the government uses themacroeconomic models to guide its policy choices, it will surely nd thatthe models fail as soon as it changes its policy, because agents will adapt tothe constraints of the new policy. projecting macroeconomic relationshipsestimated in the past into the future implicitly assumes that the policy ofthe past continues. but if the government uses those projections to guidechanges in its policy, then it assumes that people expect the old policy, even while a new policy is in place. people are not stupid, so the past projectionsare bound to fail. the most common response to the lucas critique (forexample, in the program of lars peter hansen and thomas sargent and, more recently, in real-business-cycle models) was to argue that economicprojections would be secure only if they were grounded in a deep analy-sis of the decision, problems faced by individuals, including their detailedunderstanding of the structure of policy. 14am odel was said to be secure from the lucas critique only if it was grounded in relationships built upfrom the deep parameters corresponding to tastes and technology. only

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 323 well-specied optimization problems wer esupposed to provide a secure basis for economic prediction. in other words, macroeconomics must bereduced to microeconomics. the conviction that macroeconomics must possess microfoundations has changed the face of the discipline in the lastquarter century. that the argument for microfoundations should have been so successful rhetorically is, i think, puzzling. for it ignores the obvious difculties in empirical implementation posed by the cournot problem. as i said before,no one believes that economists can practicably trace the decision problemsof millions of individuals and aggregate them to discover macroeconomicbehavior. the intellectual triumph of microfoundations is grounded not inmethodological individualism (that is, in a strategy of basing all empiricalexplanations on the behavior of individuals) but in ontological individualism (the conviction that the only real entities in the economy are individuals).whocould disagree with that? well, i would. unfortunately, the full argument for this position would take us further down a metaphysical byway than any group of economistsis likely to want to go. still, i would at least like to poke a few holes inthe presumption that ontological individualism is necessarily correct. thefear of the ontological individualist is that if he says that macroeconomicentities like gdp or the general price level are real, he must also say that theyare independent of the individual people who constitute the economy. thesecond claim is, of course, obviously wrong, but ontological individualismdoes not follow from denying it. the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics could be one of supervenience. any identical reconguration of the agents inthe economy and their situations results in the same conguration of themacroeconomic entities in the economy, but the mapping is not one to one.what is more, the supervenience of the macroeconomy on the microecon- omy is not just a weak form of reductionism. this is because of intentionalityat the microlevel. individuals have to make plans and decisions on the basisof expectations about the future. in so doing, they face precisely the sameproblem that is faced by the economist from his detached perspective: theeconomy is too complex for a detailed microeconomic account to informthe construction of expectations. individuals, just like economists, face thecournot problem. when i try to gure out how much money to put aside to pay for my daughters college education, i must make guesses about futureination and interest rates, as well as about my own income. i cannot dothat by constructing a realistic computable-general-equilibrium model ofthe economy. instead, i use simple macroeconomic models (indeed, crude

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 324 kevin d .h oover time-series models, such as one that says that future interest rates will be the average of past interest rates). but this means that i cannot completelyreduce macroeconomics to microeconomics. microeconomics of the real world necessarily uses macroeconomic models and concepts as an input. the macroeconomy supervenes on the microeconomy but is not reducibletoit. aggregation and the illusion of a microeconomic ontology while i am convinced that the impulse that made the microfoundational argument succeed is ontological and not methodological, it would be absurdnot to acknowledge the methodological sea change in macroeconomics afterthe lucas critique. macroeconomic models look like microeconomic models(hence the reaction that my use of pissaridess model provoked among mycolleagues). the same techniques, the same mathematics, the same language is used. but this is truly puzzling. the physicist who has successfully reducedthe ideal gas laws to the kinetic theory of gases does not then abandon thelanguage of pressure, temperature, and volume when working with gases ortrytouse momentum, mass, and velocity as the principal phenomenological categories for discussing the macroscopic behavior of gases. buteconomists have taken a different tack. they have typically started with the microeconomics of the individual and then asked to what degree the lessons learned at that level can still apply to aggregates of individuals.there is, in consequence, a vast literature on the theory of aggregation. thegeneral conclusion of this literature is that aggregation in which the macrolooks like the micro can occur only under circumstances so stringent thatthey could never be fullled in the real world except by the merest chance.iwant to argue something even stronger than that; namely, that even what appears to be perfect aggregatio nunder ideal circumstances fails. but, rst, let us consider the lessons of aggregation theory as they stand. economics is about heterogeneous things. in microeconomics we choose how to allocate our consumption among different goods or how to allocatefactors of production used to make those goods. in both cases, we con-sider physical things of disparate natures and somehow have to make themequivalent. the role of utility functions or prot functions is to give us acommon denominator, a basis for choosing among goods that otherwise are little alike. similarly, when we calculate nominal gdp, we cannot add up thedisparate goods until we have given them a common denominator typi-cally, money. real gdp is even one step further removed, as we correct the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 325 monetary unit of measurement for changes in its own value by constructing anotion of a general price level. now,the rst question asked in aggregation theory is, when is aggregation perfect? that is, when can two disparate goods be added together and treatedanalytically as if they were but one good? the criteria are typically economic,not physical, though the rst example may seem physical. suppose that wehave a certain quantity of coal and a certain quantity of oil. coal and oildiffer on many dimensions; but, if the only difference of material importancetous is the amount of heat they produce (which dimensions matter is the economic criterion), then we can measure each in british thermal units(btus), rather than in tons or barrels, and add them up in those units. thisis the case in which, up to a factor of proportionality, the goods are perfectsubstitutes. similarly, in any case in which goods are perfect substitutes onthe relevant dimensions, we can aggregate them. oddly, the polar opposite case works as well. consider the manufacture of water through burning hydrogen and oxygen. it takes exactly two molesof hydrogen and one mole of oxygen to make one mole of water. we can-not vary the formula. hydrogen and oxygen are not substitutable; they areperfect complements. but we can aggr egate perfectly by counting bundles of hydrogen and oxygen into bundles: 2h 1o 1 water bundle. generally, however, except in these extreme cases, perfect aggregation is not possible. the reason is economic. if goods are neither perfect comple-ments (in which case no change in the mix of the goods is possible) norperfect substitutes (in which case no change in the mix of goods matters),then the mix of goods can be changed and still yield the same output orutility. how that mix changes depends on relative prices. as the price of agood rises, we purchase less of that good and more of its substitute. thisis the basis for the common claim, going back to hicks, that we can treatbundles of goods as composite commodities, so long as their relative pricesdo not change: the so-called composite commodity theorem. 15 the composite commodity theorem is true as far as it goes, but notice how special are the assumptions on which it is based. we generally regardprices not as exogenous variables given outside the economic system, but asone of the important products of economic coordination. the proofs of theexistence of a general equilibrium, going back to kenneth arrow and gerard debreu, demonstrate that there is a set of prices that coordinates economicactivity. the prices are not themselves parameters, but change as the trueparameters (tastes and technology, if we go back to lucass formulation)change. the composite commodity theorem, therefore, holds only when

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 326 kevin d .h oover the relevant underlying parameters do not change. how relevant can that be for interesting economic analysis? letusillustrate the problem with an extremely simple example. consider an economy with two consumers and two goods. these goods can be eithertwo goods in a single period or one physical good that can be consumed intwo different periods. it does not matter which interpretation we take for the example to work, although the second one is directly relevant to a number of intertemporal macroeconomic models. let each individual ( i)c h o ose the goods ( c 1and c2)bymaximizing a cobb-douglas utility function: ui logci 1 ilogci 2 (17.1) subject to a budget constraint yici 1pci 2 0, (17.2) where yis exogenously given income, and pis the price of good 2 in terms of the numeraire, good 1. the demand for good 1 is ci 2 yi 1 i. (17.3) letting the superscripted, lower-case letters designate variables that apply to individual agents and upper-case or unsuperscripted letters, variables thatapply to aggregates, the idea of the representative-agent model is simple. ifequation ( 17.3)gives the demand for the individual for good 1, then the aggregate demand for good 1 is c1 y 1 . (17.4) but, in our simple economy of only two agents, it is easy to check exactly what the aggregate form, of the demand for good 1 should be. it is merelythe sum of the two individual demands, so that c1 c1 1 c1 2 y1 1 1 y2 1 2 (1 1)y1 (1 2)y2 (1 1)(1 2) y 1y1 2y2 (1 1)(1 2), (17.5) since y y1 y2.i ng e n eral, equation ( 17.5)does not have the same form as equation ( 17.4). in fact, the only circumstances in which ( 17.4)and ( 17.5) are identical in form is when a1 a2 athat is, when all agents have identical tastes. asarule, the conditions are even more stringent than that. i purposely chose a very tractable utility function .the cobb-douglas utility function is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 327 homothetic; that is, its indifference curves are each parallel blowups of the indifference curves closer to the origin. equivalently, the income-expansionpaths (that is, the locus of tangencies between indifference curves and budgetconstraints as the budget constraint is moved outward to reect increasing income and constant relative prices) are all straight lines through the origin.andthis is what the theorists tells us: some technical details and caveats toone side, perfect aggregation from individual agents to a representative agent requires that all agents have identical utility functions and that thesebe homothetic. why? because in these cases, income distribution is notrelevant. because of homotheticity, the ratios of goods consumed by any one individual remain the same whether that individual is rich or poor. andbecause utility functions are identical, the ratios of goods consumed are thesame for any individual. in such circumstances, for a xed aggregate income,redistributing that income among the individual consumers will not affect demands for individual goods and, therefore, will not affect relative prices.inthat case, the conditions of hickss composite commodity theorem apply, and we can add up individual quantities to form economy-wide aggregateswithout loss of information. although the example that we have looked at is extremely simple, it carries a very general message. the conditions of exact aggregation arestrong and almost certainly never fullled in any practical instance. whyshould one accept the representative-agent model and the facile analogyfrom the micro to the macro? indeed, recently, a number of economists rolfmantel, hugo sonnenschein, and debreu have shown that theoretically there is no such analogy. 16nomatter how well behaved the microeconomic functions may be, the aggregate functions, given distributional variations,are essentially unrestricted and need not take a form that is derivable in anysimple way from the form of the underlying micro functions. this means,for example, that if every underlying production function is cobb-douglas,there is no theoretical reason to conclude that the aggregate production will also be cobb-douglas. conversely, if the aggregate production function foran economy is cobb-douglas (which to a rst approximation it appearstobe for the u.s. economy), there is no reason to believe that this tells us anything at all about the shape of the underlying production functions. there is a strong belief, expressed not only in the ordinary practice of macroeconomics but in the methodological writings of philosophers of eco-nomics, that aggregation does not alter the fundamental categories of eco-nomics. whereas in physics molecules have one sort of description andgases, even though they are aggregations of molecules, quite another, ineconomics real gdp is much like any other real good. uskali m aki makes

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 328 kevin d .h oover the point i wish to oppose by saying that economics does not add to the ontic furniture of the world given to common sense.17this is, i think, an illusion that arises because of the view that perfect aggregation repre-sents a possible limiting case of actual aggregation. the possibility of perfectaggregation suggests the analogy of real gdp to an individual good. if, forexample, relative prices are constant (that is, p j pkis constant for all jand k), then sigma1n j 1pj,tqj,t(where the tin the subscript indicates the base time, period t)can be normalized by choosing the units for the qj,tso that each pj,t 1.then, nominal gdp at time ncan be written n summationdisplay j 1pj,t nqj,t n pt nn summationdisplay j 1qj,t n. (17.6) under the assumed conditions pis unique. some conclude, therefore, that in this limited case, one can treat the summation on the right-hand side ofequation ( 17.6)asanatural aggregate quantity analogous to an individual quantity. the conditions for constant relative prices are almost certainlynever fullled; but, even if they were, the summation is not analogous to anindividual quantity. the general price level pin (17.6)still has the dimension period- ndollars period- t(i.e., base period) dollars. t o sum heterogeneous goods, they must still be converted to a common denominator, and in thiscase, the summation still has the dimensions of period- tdollars. this would be more perspicuous if ( 17.6)w e r ew r itten as n summationdisplay j 1pj,t nqj,t n pt nn summationdisplay j 11j,t nqj,t n, (17.7) where the subscripted numeral 1 is a place holder for the dimensional con-version. one might regard perfect aggregation as the idealization of typical aggre- gation in which quantities are affected by changing relative prices. theupshot of the argument here is that the aggregate remains analogous tothe macro gas of the ideal gas laws and is not obviously some natural exten-sion of a single underlying molecule. the ideal gas laws t well only withinalimited range of temperatures and pressures. outside that range, they, vary in a manner than can be accounted for using the kinetic theory ofgases by adding more realistic assumptions about the volume of individualmolecules and the forces acting between them. the equivalent in macroe-conomics is found in the efforts of alan kirman and kathryn dominguez and ray fair, among others, to account for distributional effects in macroe-conomic relationships. 18

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 329 the strange career of the representative-agent model given what we know about representative-agent models, there is not the slightest reason for us to think that the conditions under which theyshould work are fullled. the claim that representative-agent models pro-vide micro-foundations succeeds only when we steadfastly avoid the fact that representative-agent models are just as aggregative as old-fashionedkeynesian macroeconometric models. they do not solve the problem of aggregation; rather they assume that it can be ignored. while they appear touse the mathematics of microeconomics, the subjects to which they applythat microeconomics are aggregates that do not belong to any agent. thereis no agent who maximizes a utility function that represents the whole econ-omy subject to a budget constraint that takes gdp as its limiting quantity.this is the simulacrum of microeconomics, not the genuine article. this seems transparently obvious. so why have intelligent economists come to believe so fervently both in the necessity of microfoundations and in the efcacy of the representative-agent model in providing them? letme offer a speculation. one of the earliest examples of modern dynamiceconomics is found in frank ramseys optimal savings problem. 19inthis problem, ramsey considered the problem of saving for an economy andimagined it to be a social planners problem in which the utility functionrepresented social preferences, without conjecturing how these might be related to the preferences of the members of society. ramsey may well have thought (in the manner of keynes) that the wise men of cambridge couldbe trusted to know what was best for society independently of any directknowledge of the lower classes. push-pin may have been as good as poetryfor jeremy bentham; but bentham was an oxford man. in cambridge thepoets ruled and aspired to rule the world. on cambridge assumptions, thereis no problem with what ramsey did. bythe early 1950s, the general-equilibrium model had been more thor- oughly developed and analyzed. the two theorems of welfare economicswereestablished: 1. every perfectly competitive general equilibrium is pareto efcient; and2. every pareto-efcient allocation can be supported as a perfectly com- petitive equilibrium for some set of lump-sum transfers. these two theorems appear to promise an isomorphism between social planner problems that choose pareto-efcie nt allocations and perfectly com- petitive equilibria. in fact, this isomorphism provides a powerful technicaltool for the solution of dynamic optimization problems, because it is often

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 330 kevin d .h oover easier to dene a social planners problem and a pareto-efcient outcome, and then to ask how to decentralize it, than it is to solve for the competitiveequilibrium directly (a trick common in the literature on real-business-cyclemodels). notice that there is a sleight of hand here. only rarely do macroeconomists care about the redistributions needed to decentralize the social plannersproblem. it is ne to ignore redistributions when they do not matter thatis, when all agents are identical and have homothetic utility functions. onceagain, the macroeconomists have slipped in unwarranted microeconomicassumptions, as well as, implicitly, assumptions about the shape of the socialplanners function. but, if we take the notion of decentralization seriously,weknow that everyone cannot be alike. furthermore, not only does aggre- gation theory tell us that we do not know how the social planners functionmight relate to the underlying utility functions, the older arrow impossi-bility theorem tells us that, for reasonable assumptions, no social plannersfunction exists that respect fully and democratically aggregates individual preferences. 20thus, the idea of the representative agent appears to arise naturally in dynamic macroeconomic models as a kind of benign extensionof ramseys social planner in the face of the two welfare theorems. but thisidea is plausible only when the macroeconomist fails to take microeconomicsseriously. could we, nevertheless, not regard the representative-agent model as an idealization? it may be a good way to think about macroeconomic problemswhen the losses due to aggregation are relatively small. let us accept that, butnotice that whether or not the representative-agent model is a good thingdepends now entirely on its contingent empirical success. it may work; itmay solve the lucas critique; it may not. we just have to see. there is nolonger a point of principle involved. the advocate of the representative-agent model has no right to attack other macroeconomists for failing toprovide microfoundations, for he fails to provide genuine microfoundationshimself. myguess is that the representative-agent model may help in pointing to some sorts of qualitatively useful relationships. but it is unlikely to provideuseful quantitative restrictions on the behavior of macroeconomic aggre-gates. the reason can be seen by thinking about the way in which marshallused the idea of the representative, rm. for marshall, the representativerm was not the average, or even median, rm, but a rm that typiedrms at a point in their life cycle at which the extreme behaviors associatedwith very small or very young rms, on the one hand, or very large or very old rms, on the other hand, could be set aside. if we can analogize back to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 331 the physicists ideal gas, marshall wanted to describe the usual behavior of a gas molecule under certain ideal conditions. the use of representative-agentmodels in modern macroeconomics attempts something quite different. itattempts to describe the behavior of the gas (its pressure and volume), notbyconsidering seriously how the molecules behave in aggregate, but by analyzing the gas as if it were one big molecule subject to the laws that infact govern real molecules. this is a category mistake: pressure and volumeare descriptions of the properties of aggregates properties that individualmolecules either in reality or idealized to colossal size do not possess asisolated units. on the analogy with gases, we should conclude that what happens to the microeconomy is relevant to the macroeconomy but that macroeconomicshas its own descriptive categories and may have its own modes of analysis.itis almost certain that, just as in the case of gases, no genuine micro- foundations can ever be provided for macroeconomics that do not makeconcessions to the macrolevel in the form of statistical assumptions about the distributions of important microeconomic characteristics. and, giventhose concessions, it is almost certain that macroeconomics cannot be euth-anized or eliminated. it shall remain necessary for the serious economist toswitch back and forth between microeconomics and a relatively autonomousmacroeconomics depending upon the problem in hand. suggested readings asobserved in this lecture, the history of microfoundations is a long one. the modern obsession with microfoundations as the sine qua non of macroeco-nomics can be dated to robert e. lucas, jr.s econometric policy evaluation:acritique (originally published in karl brunner and allan h. meltzer [eds.], the phillips curve and labor markets ,vol. 1 of carnegie-rochester conference series on public policy, amsterdam: north-holland, 1976, and reprinted in lucass own studies in business cycle theory ,o xford: blackwell, 1981). an excellent methodological study of the necessity of microfounda-tions is found in maarten janssens microfoundations: a critical inquiry (london: routledge, 1993). moreparticularly, the modern ploy of providing microfoundations through the representative-agent model is brilliantly attacked in alankirmans whom or what does the representative individual represent? journal of economic perspectives 6(2) (1992), 11736, and, with a rich his- torical perspective, in james hartleys the representative agent in macroe- conomics (london: routledge, 1997).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 332 kevin d .h oover notes 1.lucas ( 1987 ), pp. 107108. 2.marshalls notion is, as we will see, substantially different from that common in modern macroeconomics; see hartley (1996, 1997). 3.frisch used the term in his lectures; erik lindahl may have been the rst to use it in print in 1939; see fitoussi and velupillai (1993). 4.viner ( 1936 )and leontief ( 1936 ). 5.klein ( 1947 ). 6.dusenberry (1949), friedman (1957), modigliani and brumberg (1954), baumol (1952), t obin (1956, 1958), jorgenson (1963), and patinkin (1965). 7.clower (1965) and barro and grossman (1971). 8.lucas ( 1972 ). 9.vercel li (1991 ), p. 243. 10.mill (1848 1911), p. 1. 11.marshall ( 1920 ), p. 1. 12.robb ins ( 1935 ), p. 16. 13.lucas ( 1976 ). 14.hansen and sargent (1980). 15.hicks ( 1946 ), p. 46. 16.kirman ( 1992 )and hartley ( 1997 ). 17.maki (1996). 18.kirman ( 1992 ), dominguez and fair (1991). 19.ramsey ( 1928 ). 20.arrow ( 1951 ). refere nces arrow,kenneth j. (1951). social choice and individual values .n e wy o r k :w i l e y . barro, robert, and herschel i. grossman. (1971). a general disequilibrium model of income and employment. american economic review 61(1), 8293. baumol, william j. (1952). the transactions demand for cash: an inventory theoretic approach. quarterly journal of economics 66(4), 54556. clower, robert w. (1965). the keynesian counter-revolution: a theoretical appraisal. reprinted in donald a. walker (ed.), money and markets: essays by robert w.clower .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1984, pp. 3458. dominguez, kathryn m., and ray c. fair. (1991). effects of the changing u.s. age distribution on macroeconomic equations. american economic review 81(5), 1276 94. dusenberry, james. (1949). income, saving and the theory of consumer behavior. cam- bridge: cambridge university press. fitoussi, j. p . and k. velupillai. (1993). macroeconomic perspectives, in h. barkai, s. fischer, and n. liviatan (eds.). monetary theory and thought. london: macmillan. friedman, milton. (1957). atheory of the consumption function. princeton: princeton university press. hansen, lars peter, and thomas j. sargent. (1980). formulating and estimating dynamic linear rational expectations models. journal of economic dynamics and control 2(1), 746.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations 333 hartley, james e. (1996). retrospectives: the origins of the representative agent. journal of economic perspectives 10(2), 16977. hartley, james e. (1997). the representative agent in macroeconomics. london :r o u t- ledge. hicks, john r. (1946). value and capital, 2nd ed. oxford: clarendon press. jorgenson, dale. (1963). capital theory and investment behavior. american economic review 53(2), 24759. kirman, a. p . (1992). whom or what does the representative individual represent? journal of economic perspective 6(2), 11736. klein, lawrence r. (1947). the keynesian revolution. newyork: macmillan. leontief, wassily. (1936). the fundamental assumption of mr. keyness monetary theory of unemployment. quarterly journal of economics 51(1), 19297. lucas, robert e., jr. (1972). expectations and the neutrality of money. journal of economic theory 4(2), 10324. lucas, robert e., jr. (1976). econometric policy evaluation: a critique. in karl brunner and allan h. meltzer (eds.), the phillips curve and labor markets. carnegie-rochester conference. series on public policy, vol. 1, spring. amsterdam: north-holland, pp. 1946. lucas, robert e., jr. (1987). models of business cycles. oxford: blackwell. maki, uskali. (1996). scientic realism and some peculiarities of economics. in r. s. cohen, r. hilpinen, and qiu renzong (eds.), realism and anti-realism in the philosophy of science. dordrecht: kluwer, pp. 42747. marshall, a. (1920). principles of economics: an introductory volume, 8th ed. london: macmillan. mill, j. s. (1988 1911). principles of political economy with some applications to social philosophy. london: longmans and green. modigliani, franco, and r. brumberg. (1954). utility analysis and the consump- tion function: an interpretation of cross-section data. in k. kurihara (ed.), post- keynesian economics. newbrunswick, nj: rutgers university press. patinkin, don. (1965). money, interest, and prices. 2nd ed. new y ork: harper and row. pissarides, christopher a. (1992). loss of skill during unemployment and the persis- tence of employment shocks. quartely journal of economics 107(4), 137191. ramsey, frank p . (1928). a mathematical theory of saving. economic journal 38(152), 54359. robbins, l. (1935). anessay on the nature and signicance of economic science. london: macmillan. tobin, james. (1956). the interest elasticity of the transactions demand for cash. reviewofeconomics and statistics 38(3), 24147. tobin, james. (1958). liquidity preference as behaviour t owards risk. review of eco- nomic studies 25(2), 6586. vercelli, alessandro. (1991). methodological foundations of macroeconomics: keynes and lucas. cambridge: cambridge university press. viner, jacob. (1936). mr. keynes on the causes of unemployment. quarterly journal ofeconomics 51(1), 14767.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 eighteen economics in the laboratory vernon smith vernon smith (1927 ) received his ph.d. in economics at harvard. although his more than two hundred books and articles address issues in many areas of economics, he is best known for his work on experimental economics, for which he received thenobel prize in 2002. after many years at the university of arizona, smith is now a professor of economics at george mason university. whydoeconomists conduct experiments? t o answer that question, it is rst necessary briey to specify the ingredients of an experiment. every labora- tory exper iment is dened by an environment ,specifying the initial endow- ments, preferences and costs that motivate exchange. this environment iscontrolled using monetary rewards to induce the desired specic value cost conguration (smith, 1991 ,6). 1anexperiment also uses an institution dening the language (messages) of market communication (bids, offers,acceptances), the rules that govern the exchange of information, and the rulesunder which messages become binding cont racts. this institution is dened bythe experimental instructions which describe the messages and proce- dures of the market, which are most often computer controlled. finally,there is the observed behavior of the participants in the experiments as a function of the environment and institution that constitute the controlledvariables. using this framework of environment, institution, and behavior, i can think of at least seven prominent reasons in the literature as to why econo-mists conduct experiments. undoubtedly, there are more (davis and holt,1992 ,chapter 1 and passim). 1. test a theory, or discriminate between theories. this motivation comes from the economic and game theory literature. we test a theory by journal of economic perspectives ,vol. 8 (winter 1994): 11331. reprinted by permission of the american economic association. 334

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 335 comparing its message or its outcome implications with the experimen- tal observations. the greater the frequency with which the observations hit these predictions, in the context of a design in which hits are unlikely tooccur by chance, the better the theory. 2examples can be found in the auc- tion literature (smith, 1991 ,2529), where risk averse models of bidding in dutch and rst price sealed bid auctions are favored by the data overrisk neutral models, while dominant strategy auctions such as the english, whose outcomes are predicted to be ind ependent of risk attitude, perform well in the laboratory. of course, theories subjected to sufciently rigorous tests are nearly always found to need improvement; this leads to the second reason for doing experiments. 2. explore the causes of a theorys failure. when the observations of an experiment fail to conform to the implications of the theory, the rst thing tobe done is to reexamine the design, and to be sure that the predictive failure is the fault of the theory. wel l-articulated theories formally model the environment and the trading rules, and the experimentalist seeks toreproduce these conditions of the theory. in the course of testing, when the experimental design continues to seem appropriate and the theory still fails, this tends to encourage an experimental examination designed to discoverthe cause. establishing the anatomy of failure is essential to any researchprogram concerned with modifying the theory. examples are to be found inthe bargaining literature (roth, 1987 ;hoffman and spitzer, 1985 ;hoffman, et al., 1992 ;bolton, 1991 )and in common value auctions (kagel and levin, 1986 ;coxand smith, 1992 ). often theories that initially perform poorly show improvement if subjects are given more experience (cox and smith,1992 ), or the payoffs are increased (smith and walker, 1993 ), but sometimes these measures fail to yield results that improve the theorys performance(smith and walker, 1993 ). 3. establish empirical regularities as a basis for new theory. well-formulated theories in most sciences tend to be preceded by much observation, whichin turn stimulates curiosity as to what accounts for the documented regular-ities. microeconomic theory tends to build upon simplifying assumptions,and to eschew attempts to model many of the complex trading and con-tracting institutions that we observe. bu tinthe laboratory, especially with computerization, institutions with complex trading rules are as easy to study as are simple single unit auctions. this makes it possible to range beyondthe connes of current theory to establish empirical regularities which canenable theorists to see in advance what are the difcult problems on which itis worth their while to work. the continuous double auction, used the worldover, is a ne example. in this institution, buyers announce bid prices, while

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 336 vernon smith sellers announce offers, or asking prices. any new bid (offer) must be at a price which is lower (higher) than the standing bid (offer); that is, the bid-asked spread must narrow. a binding contract occurs when a buyer acceptsasellers ask, or a seller accepts a buyers bid. contracts occur in sequence as new bids, asks and acceptances occur. because of its robust equilibratingproperties with small numbers of t raders possessing only private informa- tion, this institution (smith, 1991 ,1,2,6)was studied extensively in the laboratory long before the attempts by r. wilson, d. friedman and otherstomodel it (see friedman and rust, 1992, for references). 4. compare environments. comparing environments using the same insti- tution permits an investigation of the robustness of that institution. theobjective is to stress the theory with extreme environmental conditionsunder which an institutions established properties may begin to break down.thus, in common value auctions (where the item has the same value to allbidders after the auction is completed), the nash model performs betterwhen there are 34 bidders than when there are 67 bidders (kagel andlevin,1986 ). similarly, the nash equilibrium pr ediction performs fairly well in the fouraker and siegel ( 1963 )bargaining environment, but breaks down in the ultimatum game environment (hoffman et al., 1992 ), as discussed below. 5. compare institutions. using identical environments, but varying the market rules of exchange, has been the means by which the comparativeproperties of institutions has be en established. examples include the com- parison of english, dutch, rst and second price sealed bid auctions, thecomparison of uniform and discriminative price multiple unit auctions, and the comparison of posted (retail) pricing with double auction trading(smith, 1991 ,25, 5, 17). 6. evaluate policy proposals. friedmans ( 1960 )original proposal that the treasury auction securities in one-price auctions led to their comparison with the discriminative rules (smith, 1991 ,5). bids to buy in this auction are arranged from highest to lowest; if the offering was 2 billion worthof bills, this amount of the highest bids are accepted at a price given bythe highest rejected bid. in the past decade, private industry and govern-ment sponsors have funded studies of the incentives for off-oor trading incontinuous double auction markets, alter native institutions for auctioning emissions permits, mechanisms for allocating space shuttle resources, andmarket mechanism for the allocation of airport slots (plott, 1987 ). 7. the laboratory as a testing ground for institutional design. ag r o wing use of the laboratory is as a testing ground for examining the performanceproperties of new forms of exchange. the early experiments studying the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 337 one-price sealed bid-offer auction for tr easury securities helped henry wallich to motivate the treasury in the early 1970s to offer some long- termbond issues using this procedure (smith, 1991 ,pp.51112). this led eventually to the use of the procedure in auctioning commercial paper and in setting the dividend rate on variable rate preferred corporate securities. in 1992, treasury resumed its earlier experiments with the one-price auctionbecause of publicized irregularities in dealer bidding. asecond example is the new arizona stock exchange (azx). in 1988, westarted running our rst experiments with the uniform price double auction. in this mechanism, buyers submit bids to buy, and sellers submitoffers to sell in real time during the sp ecied market call period. all bids, offers, and the tentative market clearing uniform price are displayed as theyare entered, so participants can see the existing state of the market, andalter their own bids or offers accordingly. it turns out that this approach hasefciencies comparable to those of continuous double auction, but with noprice discrimination. subsequently, we learned that steven wunsch inde-pendently developed a similar system, and was seeking sec authority tooperate it as a proprietary stock ex change for institutions. wunsch auction systems opened in new y ork in 1991. about this time ofcials of the arizona corporation commission, who had heard of our experimental studies of electronic exchange, approached us with the idea of starting an arizona stock exchange. we demonstrated the uniform price double auction forthem, pointed out its properties, and they were eager to get moving. ourrst action was to get them together with wunsch to explore the possibilityof moving his exchange to arizona. eventually, wunsch adopted the newname, azx, and the new exchange has experienced rapid growth since itsmove in march 1992. had it not been for the experiments we would not havecome to understand the comparative properties of the uniform price double auction, and would not have been able to recommend it wholeheartedly asareasonable direction for a new electronic exchange. what have economists learned from experiments? hoffmans ( 1991 )bibliography of experimental economics contains 1500 entries. i can only attempt to report a small selection of some of thendings. institutions matter experimentalists have long known that the continuous double auction rules of trade in securities markets constitutes a mechanism remarkably adept at

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 338 vernon smith maximizing the gains from exchange at prices tending to converge to com- petitive equilibria (smith, 1991 ,1). what we have learned since is that this is just one of many illustrations of the principle that institutions matter. this isbecause the rules determine the information states and individual incentivesin the trading game: institutions matter because incentives and informationmatter. consequently, posted offer retail pricing converges more slowly anderratically and is less efcient than continuous double auction (plott andsmith, 1978 ). unlike the latter, sellers receive no continuous bid price infor- mation from competing buyers. also, sellers must quote one price per periodfor all units making price cuts more costly. does this mean that posted offers are inferior to continuous double auction? no. the experiments evaluate o nly the allocative properties of the two mechanism, and do not address their different transactions cost prop-erties. with continuous double auction, every trade involves decentralizedmultilateral negotiation, while pricing is centralized in a posted offer sys- tem, and clerks need have no bargaining skills. the latter is cost effective for mass retail distribution, the former has been well-suited to the broker-dealerstructure of securities markets. asearly as 1965 (smith, 1991 ,4), an extreme environment was used as a stress-test to explore the limits of the ability of the continuous double auctiontogenerate competitive equilibria. this was the swastika environment in which the demand price is constant up to a maximum quantity, andthe supply price (below demand price) is also constant up to a maximumquantity greater than the maximum demand quantity. if you draw thesedemand and supply curves you see what looks like a swastika emblem.suchmarkets still performed efciently, but convergence to the competitive equilibrium was slow and erratic when the excess supply was very small. vanboening and wilcox ( 1992 )haverecently reported a much more successful stress-test of continuous double auction .they report experiments in which the sellers only costs are xed costs that can be avoided by selling zerounits, and the demand price is constant up to a xed capacity. this lumpyenvironment is structured so that there is no uniform price competitiveequilibrium like that to which continuous double auction usually converges;yetefcient allocations exist. the important result is that continuous double auction cannot handle this environment, and research is under way for newor traditional mechanisms that can handle such cases. the issue is of practicalimportance. airlines, for example, have large ight costs that can only beavoided by not ying. one of the better-known predictive failures of expected utility theory is the preference reversal phenomenon. a subject reports that gamble a is

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 339 preferred to b, but in responding with her selling price places a higher price on b (say 10) than on a ( 7) (lichtenstein and slovic, 1971 ). bu tc h u and chu ( 1990 )report that such reversals are much reduced on the sec- ond iteration of a process in which the experimenter arbitrages the incon-sistency, and reversals disappear on the third iteration, establishing thatsubjects are not satised with their own choices when they experience theimplications of those choices. more subtle experiments have been reportedby cox and grether ( 1992 ), in which each subjects selling price is elicted in an english clock auction which is known to have good demand rev-elation properties. in this auction a c lock is set at a low price; all buy- ers respond with their demands. the clock then ticks up to successivelyhigher prices, and buyers respond by reducing their demand until thereis but one unit demanded. after ve repetitions, subjects selling priceswerein general consistent with their choices. consequently, this provides another example of the tendency for rational behavior to emerge in thecontext of a repetitive market institution. but in this case, the market corrects the inconsistency of behavior found in choice elicitation experi- ments. unconscious optimization in market interactions inhis early path-breaking critique of the feasibility of rational calculation in human choice, simon ( 1955 ,p.104) explicitly did not rule out the possi- bility that the unconscious is a better decision-marker than the conscious. unknown to both of us at the time was the fact that the rst of hundreds of continuous double auction experiments reported in smith ( 1991 ,1 ,c hart 1) would spotlight the crucial importance of not ruling out the rationality of unconscious decision in rule-governed rep eat interaction settings. consider the typical conditions of a continuous double auction experiment. subjectshave private information on their own willingness-to-pay or willingness-to-accept schedules which bound the prices at which each can protably trade.nosubject has information on market supply and demand. after an exper- iment, upon interrogation they deny that they could have maximized theirmonetary earnings or that their trading results could be predicted by a the-ory. y et despite these conditions, the subjects tend to converge quickly overtime to the competitive equilibrium. thus, the most common responsestothe market question were: unorganized, unstable, chaotic, and confused. students were both surprised and amazed at the conclusion of the experi-ment when the entrusted student opened a sealed envelope containing thecorrectly predicted equilibrium price and quantity (gillette and delmas, 1992 ,p .5 ) .

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 340 vernon smith that economic agents can achieve efcient outcomes which are not part of their intention was the key principle articulated by adam smith, but few outside of the austrian and chicago traditions believed it, circa1956. certainly i was not primed to believe it, having been raised by asocialist mother, and further handicapped (in this regard) by a harvardeducation, but my experimental subjects revealed to me the error in mythinking. inmany experimental markets, poorly informed, error-prone, and uncomprehending human agents interact through the trading rules to pro-duce social algorithms which demonstrably approximate the wealth max-imizing outcomes traditionally thought to require complete informationand cognitively rational actors. 3 information: less can be better providing subjects with complete information, far from improving mar- ketcompetition, tends to make it worse. in 1976, i reported continuous double auction results, using the swastika environment described above,comparing the effect of private with complete information (smith, 1991 ,6). under private information, convergence to the equilibrium outcome (in this case, the nash-competitive outcome) was much more rapid and dependablethen under complete and common information. 4similar results had been reported earlier by fouraker and siegel ( 1963 )for bertrand and cournot oligopoly, and more recently by noussair and porter (1992) and brown-kruse ( 1992 ). when people have complete information they can identify more self-interested outcomes than nash (and competitive) equilibria, anduse punishing strategies in an attempt to achieve them, which delays reach-ing equilibrium. of course, it can be said that all of this simply supports the folk theorem that repetition aids cooperation. but the folk theorem operates in situations with small numbers and complete information like the fact that a repeated prisoners dilemma game tends to converge to cooperation. the argumenthere is much stronger: competitive tendencies prevail under the privateinformation conditions that pervade markets in the economy. the principle that private payoff information can yield better results has also been established in the nash bargaining game (roth, 1987 ). nash assumed that the bargainers knew each others utilities (preferences). rothand his coworkers implemented this theory with ingenious simplicity: sub-jects bargained over the division of 100 lottery tickets, each representing achance to win xed large or small prizes for each of the two players, with the prizes generally being different for the two players. when the two players

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 341 know only their own prizes (and each others percentage of the lottery tick- ets), the outcome conforms to the nash bargaining solution. when thebargainers also know each others prizes the nash prediction fails; in short,nash theory is not falsied, it is just not robust with respect to the bargainers knowing both prizes. the principle that less information can be advantageous also applies under asymmetric payoff information in which schelling ( 1957 )argued that the less informed bargainer may have an advantage over a completelyinformed adversary. in fact, siegel and fouraker ( 1960 )observed this to be the case. the better informed bargainer, knowing that the other playerknew only his own payoff, is more forgiving when his opponent makeslarge demands. this concessionary posture works to the disadvantage of thecompletely informed player. camerer, loewenstein and weber ( 1989 )call this the curse of knowledge and report new evidence in a market setting. common information is not sufcient to yield common expectations or knowledge ithas been argued that game theory requires common knowledge. 5this arbitrarily limits the value of game theory in organizing experimental data,and directs our attention away from the fact that we must understand theprocess of achieving common knowledge if game theory is to make progressin predicting behavior. this is implicitly recognized by the growing currentinterest among game theorists in concepts of bounded rationality and oflearning. although i believe these are conceptually the right directions totake, if the exercises are guided by introspective model development, unin-formed by observations and testing, they are unlikely to achieve their fullpredictive potential. experimentalists have attempted to implement the condition of com- mon knowledge by publicly announcing instructions, payoffs, and otherconditions in an experiment. some examples of this process would be roth (1987 )innash bargaining games, smith, suchanek and williams (smith, 1991 ,19) in nite horizon asset trading experiments, and mccabe ( 1989 )i n nite horizon at money experiments, but there are many others. however,it should be noted that administering common instructions in public liter-ally achieves common information notcommon knowledge in the sense of expectations. in other words, there is no assurance that a public announce- ment will yield common expectations among the players, since each person may still be uncertain about how others will use the information. inlaboratory stock markets, each player receives an initial endowment in cash and shares of stock. it is public information that the expected dividend

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 342 vernon smith in a given time period will be some xed number for each of the tperiods of the game. with zero interest rate, the value of a share of stock in the rst time period should be ttimes the expected dividend. in each time period, the rational expectations hypothesis is that share prices will be equal to theremaining dividends to be paid, and will decline by an amount equal to the expe cted divi dend i ne a c ht i m ep e r i o d . infact, rst-time participants in experiments of this sort whether they are undergraduates, graduates, business persons, or stock traders pro-duce bell-shaped price bubbles starting below fundamental value, risingwell above and crashing to near fundamental value in the last few periods. trading volume is high. when subjects return for a second session, the price bubbles are dampened, and volume is reduced. when they return for a thirdsession, trading tends to follow the decline in fundamental value, with verythin volume. these experiments illustrate that participants come to havecommon expectations by experience, not by being given common informa- tion and then reasoning that others will expect prices to be near fundamentalvalue. 6 unless players have common expectations of behavior in later periods, they cannot reason backwards to the present. this problem, for theoriesbased on backward induction rationality, is illustrated by the wage searchexperiments of cox and oaxaca ( 1989 ). in their experiments, subjects search adistribution of wages, and must decide in each period whether to accept acertain wage offer; if accepted the subject must forego continued search and the possibility of receiving a better subsequent offer. in this situation,subjects have only to anticipate their own behavior in later periods in ordertopractice backward induction. subjects in these experiments behave as if they are solving the backward induction problem properly. hence, it wouldappear that when common expectations exist (because the subject knows his or her own expectations) then subje cts will backward induct. of course, this does not mean that subjects are conscious of having solved such aproblem, and can tell you about it. inthis journal, brandenberger ( 1992 )has usefully emphasized that the assumption of common knowledge is sometimes unduly strong; examplesare given in which if each of two players are rational and they have mutualknowledge (both know it, but not necessarily that both know that both knowit), then a nash equilibrium follows. these distinctions between variousdegrees of knowledge are certainly helpful, but if game theory is to havepredictive value, it is necessary to go further and seek to discover operationally how to achieve the required conditions of knowledge. theories based uponabstract conditions make no predictions. subjects obtain knowledge of the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 343 strategy choices of others by experience. this is why i see no way for game theory to advance independently of experimental (or other) observations.wehave to understand the processes whereby the required conditions of knowledge are satised processes like pre-game play, repeated play, cheaptalk, or the futures market example discussed in a moment before theimplications of those conditions can become testable hypotheses. ithas been observed that if the failure of rational expectations in nite horizon trading experiments was due to the lack of common expectationsabout later periods, then introducing futures markets should hasten con-vergence to rational expectations equilibria by speeding up the process of creating common expectations of later period behavior (porter and smith,1989 ). forsythe, palfrey and plott ( 1982 )had reported that convergence in two-period horizon experiments was hastened by introducing a futuresmarket on period two. if our interpretation was correct, then a futuresmarket on period eight in 15-period asset trading experiments would aidin creating common expectation at mid-horizon (subjects already expecttrading at fundamental value near the end), and price bubbles should be retarded in the presence of such a futures market. porter and smith ( 1989 ) report experiments supporting this hypothesis. the learning suggested by these studies is that the important role of futures markets may be to fos-ter co mmon expectations among traders concerning a future event. this permits the backward induction calculus to yield the appropriate rationalexpe ctations in the current period. dominated strategies are for playing, not eliminating itis commonly argued that dominated strategies should never rationally be played, and thus can be eliminated in game-theoretic analysis. but playersin repeated games do sometimes play dominated strategies and there aresound reasons why. consider the two-person alternating-play game tree in figure 18.1,which is played repeatedly for a long time with uncertain termination (mccabe,rassenti and smith, 1992 ). if player 1 moves down at x 1then at x2player 2 can signal a desire to achieve the cooperative outcome (50 : 50) by moving left,or, by moving right, signal a desire to achieve the subgame noncooperativeoutcome (40 : 40), since player 2 knows that player 1 will see node x 6as more attractive than node x4.but if player 2 chooses left at x2,player 1 can defect by mov ing down at x3,forcing player 2 at node x5to cho ose between (60 : 30) and the direct punishment outcomes that result at node x7.game theory reasons that player 2 should play left at node x5,accepting player ls defection, but punish on the next round of repeated play by choosing right at node

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 344 vernon smith 50 50 6030 2020 1530404030603570 00 00player id's1 2x 1 x2 x3 x5 x7x4 x6 x8player 1 player 2 decision node 1 2 11 2 1payoff box figure 18.1. a two-person alternating-play game x2(choosing right at x2almost without exception ends at the equilibrium (40 : 40)). subject player 2s tend not to do this, but instead to play downatx 5,and thereby to punish immediately. the reason is clear, the resulting message is unambiguous, with no possibility that player ls will misunder-stand. the strategy works: even when 12 subjects are randomly repairedafter each play, there is a strong tendency toward the cooperative outcomebyround 1520. (if the game is altered by interchanging the (50 : 50) and (60 : 30) payoff boxes, thereby removing player 2s ability to punish imme-diately, then cooperation fails to emerge). this is not the game-theoreticroute to repeated-play cooperation because the bargainers are assumed to have common expectations (knowledge). but, as we have seen, commonexpectations is achieved by a process of play, not by deductive analysis. part of this process may be to punish in ways that will be clearly understood. efciency and underrevelation are compatible itis well-known that a market participant, whether a buyer or seller, can sometimes tilt the conditions of the transaction toward personal gain andawayfrom market efciency, by not revealing true willingness to trade. consequently, economists often seem to argue as if market efciency must rely on complete revelation of preferences. asan empirical counterexample, consider the version of the uniform price double auction mechanism studied in mccabe, rassenti and smith

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 345 (1992 ). remember that in this auction for mat, subjects submit openly dis- played bids during a market call period. in this format, subjects greatly underreveal demand and supply, but they adjust their bids and offers so thatthe market clearing price and quantity approximates a competitive equilib-rium. at this equilibrium, they produce many bids and offers tied at the same price. this behavior serves to protect each side of the market againstmanipulation by the other side. that is, if a buyer attempts to lower themarket price by bidding lower, that buyers bid is replaced by another tiedbid without moving the price, and similarly if a seller attempts to raise theprice. inshort, efciency only requires enough revelation to allow the marginal units on both sides of the market to trade. this can occur although thereis massive under-revelation of the inframarginal units. in uniform priceexperiments, one frequently observes that subjects capture 100 percent of the surplus while revealing only 1015 percent of it in their bids. the endowment effect thaler ( 1980 )has argued that the observed tendency in survey studies for willingness-to-accept to exceed willingness-to-pay by nontrivial amounts is due to an endowment (or ownership) effect which arises because of lossaversion; an example is the man who paid 5 per bottle for a case of wine. afew years later he is offered 100 per bottle, and refuses, although he has never paid more than 35 for a bottle of wine. in this case giving up the wineyields a loss which is more highly weighted than the gain from purchasing an equivalent bottle. the existence of an endowment effect has been suggestedbynumerous hypothetical survey studies; recently, the experimental focus has been to verify its existence with real goods. ithas been argued by kahneman, knetsch and thaler ( 1990 )that the endowment effect does not apply to goods held for resale; only to goodswhich are consumed. similarly, it does not apply to the exchange of rights(or tokens) on which value has been induced by cash payments in exper-iments. in either case, since what is being acquired is intended from thestart to be resold, losses and opportunity costs are transparently equivalent.kahneman, knetsch and thaler ( 1990 )report both choice and exchange experiments conrming the results with tokens, but establishing the willingness-to-accept willingness-to-pay discrepancy for consumer goods (like emblem mugs, pens, and so on). they also reject empirically the impor-tant qualication that the discrepancy is due to income effects (see theirexperiments 6 and 7). franciosi, kujal, michelitsch and smith ( 1993 )h a v e reported experiments that narrow the reported willingness-to-accept

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 346 vernon smith willingness-to-pay discrepancy by using a more uniform choice task, and byusing the uniform price double auction (with its good revelation prop- erties for marginal units) to establish price. while these results reduce the discrepancy, the endowment effect r emains statistically (and economically) signicant. samuelson and zeckhauser ( 1988 )suggest that the endowment effect may be a manifestation of a broader status quo bias; they provide resultsshowing the existence of such a bias even when the problem is not framedin terms of gains and losses. models of utility-maximizing when decisioncosts are taken into account postulate a trade-off between the sum of all the various costs of decision-making and the value of the decision outcome(smith and walker, 1993 ). such models predict a bias in favor of ones current status, since any change is cognitively and information costly. fairness: t aste or expectation? according to survey studies reported by kahneman, knetsch and thaler (1986 ), people indicate that it is unfair for rms to raise prices and increase prots in response to certain changes in the environment which are not jus- tied by an increase in costs. thus, respondents report that it is unfair forrms to raise the price of snow-shovels after a snowstorm, or to raise the priceof plywood following a hurricane. in these circumstances, economic theorypredicts shortages, an increase in prices toward the new market clearing lev-els, and eventually an increase in output. however, economic theory doesnot predict the verbal behavior of agents in this process so such expressionsdo not falsify the theory. do expressions of unfairness reect interpersonal utilities that reduce effective demand for the product of offending parties, or do they vent theunpleasant need for expectations to be adjusted? if such results show no morethan a lag as aggrieved parties adjust their expectations to the new reality,the standard models will predict the eventual result, as the indignation sub-sides. but protesting parties may react strategically in their self-interest bywithholding demand and punishing price gougers, or, fearing this, sellers may moderate or forgo their increase in prices. alternatively, by way of con-temporary contract theory, one side or the other may see the reference price and transactions as an implicit contract, not to be lightly tampered with. ifan economic agent can extract resources by claiming unfair treatment, thenit is consistent with standard theory for the agent to manufacture wordstothat effect. in such situations, it isnt clear that standard self-interested utility-maximizing models can account fully for the observed marketbehavior.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 347 kahneman, knetsch and thaler ( 1986 )donot predict the nal outcome in these cases; a departure from the reference transaction, initially seen as unfair, may eventually achieve the status of a new reference transaction.this argument is a form of the standard adaptive expectations hypothesis,and has been tested in an experimental market environment (kachelmeier,limberg, and schadewald, 1991 ;deng et al., 1992 ). in an initial baseline series of trading periods with a 50 percent prots tax on sellers, the after-tax prot of sellers is identical with the consumers surplus of buyers, andthe division of surplus is fair. then the reference baseline is altered bysubstituting a 20 percent sales tax for the 50 percent prot tax on sellers. theeffect of the sales tax is to raise the market clearing price, and substantiallyincrease seller after-tax prot relative to buyer prot in comparison with thereference situation. across experiments, the subjects are divided into three different treatment groups: (1) marginal cost disclosure, in which buyersare informed of the price implications of the sales tax; (2) no disclosure, inwhich buyers are given no new information; (3) prot disclosure, in whichbuyers receive a graph showing for each price what the potential split of totalsurplus is between buyers and sellers. deng et al. ( 1992 )choose a particular institutional context in which sellers independently post selling prices at the beginning of each period. buyers,queued at random, choose to make their purchases one at a time. thekahneman, knetsch, thaler argument implies that in the rst period, prices will be highest under marginal cost disclosure, where buyers are informed of the price implications of the sales tax, because the disclosure serves to justifyprice increases and to reduce any resistance to them. revealing prots, onthe other hand, will lead to the lowest prices in the rst period, because thechange from the reference (baseline) transactions is greatest, and will lead tosubstantial resistance. the no-information group should, according to the hypothesis, fall between these extremes. the results strongly and signicantly support the kahneman, knetsch and thaler hypothesis. in period one, the price in the marginal cost disclosuregroup was very near the new competitive equilibrium, with prices much the lowest in the prot disclosure group. but in successive trading periods,the mean prices in the prot disclosure and no disclosure groups increase,and by period 10 none of the three means are statistically different fromeach other or the competitive price. these results offer strong conrmationof standard theory, as the sellers in the prot disclosure treatment raiseprices over time in response to the excess demand. furthermore, as sellersraise prices they are not deterred by any signicant incidence of demand withholding by buyers.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 348 vernon smith fairness questions also arise in the ultimatum game where a sum of money, say 10, is to be allocated between two people. player 1 moves rst offering some amount, x,ofthe 10 to player 2. if player 2 accepts that amount, then player 1 receives the rest; if player 2 rejects that amount, bothplayers receive zero. game theory predicts that player 1 will offer the smallestpossible amount to player 2; player 2 will accept it as better than nothing;and player 1 will take the lions share. however, in the experimental contextwhen players are anonymously paired, and play only once, the modal offerbyplayer 2 is 5, with a lower median. these observations have been interpreted as showing that the players have ataste for fairness (see bolton, 1991 ,and his references). in particular player 2 is concerned about being treated fairly by player 1, and the latter must takethis into account lest her offer be rejected. but this interpretation has beencalled into question by the results of the dictator game in which player 2 must accept the offer of player 1. forsythe et al. ( 1988 )nd signicantly lower offers in the dictator game than in the ultimatum game. hoffmanet al. ( 1992 )corroborate these results and report dramatically lower offers (two-thirds offer zero) when the dictator game is run double blind: theexperimenter does not know the decisions or payoffs of any subject. t o put it another way, the dictator results are highly sensitive to the degreeof anonymity from other persons. this suggests that the ultimatum gameresults are due primarily to strategic and expectational considerations, and not just to a taste for fair outcomes. the same considerations apply to theabove market experiments. methodology and experiment the fact that the planet mercury exhibited an orbit that violated newtonstheory did not lead newtonians to conclude that the theory was falsied;rather, they concluded that there must exist a heretofore unknown planet between the sun and mercury that perturbed its orbit from the predictedpath. they even named it vulcan, and there was no subsequent shortageof claimed sightings (roseveare, 1982 ).alltests of a theory require various auxiliary hypotheses that are necessary in order to interpret the observationsas a test of the theory. these auxiliary hypotheses go under various names:initial conditions, ceteris paribus clauses, background information, and so on. consequently, all tests of a theory a reactually joint tests that is, a test of the theory conditional on the auxiliary hypotheses. this leads to the duhem-quine theses, according to which one can always rescue a theory from ananomalous observation by ex post hoc recourse to imaginative and persuasive

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 349 auxiliary hypotheses. conversely, every observational victory for a theory can be questioned by a suitable revision of the background knowledge inwhich the theory is embedded. t his thesis denies the possibility of direct falsication of any specic testable implication of a theory (and, in its strongform, denies rational rules of selection). myview is that some philosophers have exaggerated the signicance of the duhem-quine problem, while experimentalists may be unaware of itspower in inuencing their day-to-day activities. experimental economistsare intuitively if not formally aware of the problem; this is why they do somany experiments probing the sources of a theorys failure, or success, as inthe ultimatum game and other examples discussed above. if you have a con-founding problem with auxiliary hypotheses, then you do new experimentstotest them. if the auxiliary hypotheses are not testable, this is preeminently your critics problem. arecent exchange among experimentalists in the december 1992 amer- ican economic review is squarely reective of the duhem-quine problem. harr ison ( 1992 )has questioned all falsifying obse rvations in experimental economics as due to a postulated low opportunity cost of deviating fromtheoretical optimality. this thesis sets the stage for the convenient nihilistbelief that all recalcitrant observations must be due to inadequate payoffopportunity cost. (of course, this argument raises the unanswered questionof why there exist validating results with low opportunity cost). but, likemost important instances of duhem-quine, the proposition can be and hasbeen tested in this case many times over the last 30-odd years (smith andwalker, 1993 ,o f f e rar eview). 7the results have made it plain that money does matter; that factors besides money also matter; that many anomalies do notdisappear by escalating payoffs (and foregone prots); and that inadequateattention has been given to modelling the possible relationship between theperformance of a theory and the (monetary and nonmonetary) motivationof decision-makers. 8 butother duhem-quine issues regularly arise. both when the results are favorable and when they are unfavorable to a theory, experimentaleconomists have asked if the observations were affected by increased sub-ject experience. thus, alger ( 1986 )reports oligopoly results in which early convergence to nash behavior does not persist when much longer experi- ments are run. but alger used simulated buyers, and it has been shown thatmean prices are uniformly lower in oligopoly competition when real buyersare used (brown-kruse, 1991 ). these and a host of similar duhem-quine issues are subject to empirical examination and are part of the day-to-dayoperating life of experimentalists.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 350 vernon smith the replication problem is also related to duhem-quine. it is often claimed that there is inadequate re plication in economics. the common complaint is that because replications are inadequately original, editors are reluctant to publish them, and researchers are not well-motivated to conduct them. experimental econ omists should perform replications, and often do so, as part of the process of reporting new experiments, so that theresults can be compared with replications of previous studies. of course, few such replications are completely pure: seldom does a researcher attempttoreplicate exactly all the instructions, procedures, subject type, and other conditions used in a previous study. i would argue that such attempts at pure replication are in order only when the results of a previous study fail to replicate, and it is desirable to investigate why. if i do an experiment similar toyours as a baseline control for comparison with a related experiment iintend to perform, i am testing the robustness of your original results using my instructions, my subjects and a different experimenter. in effect,iamvarying some of the more routine auxiliary hypotheses, and asking if the results are nonetheless indistinguishable. as a practical matter they mostoften are. when they are, then my experiment provides more support for the original theory than if the same (earlier) experiment was simply repeated. franklin ( 1990 ,p.1078) makes this point by noting that if you want to know the correct time, it is more informative to compare your watch withanothers than for either of you to look at your own watch twice. intuitively,experimentalists and editors apply this principle in rejecting routine pure replication as not sufciently original. experimentalists and other economists often use the rhetoric of falsify- ing theories, but it is clear from the totality of our professional conduct thatfalsication is just a means to a different end: the modication of theory inthe light of evidence. t o pursue this end, we need to know not only the con-ditions under which extant theory is falsied, but also the conditions underwhich it is veried. it is naive to suppose that any experiment will deliverthe death blow to some theory. theory always swims in the rough waterof anomaly. y ou dont abandon a theory because of a (or many) falsifyingobservation(s). when newton published the principia ,itwas well-known that he could not even account for the orbit of the moon. einsteins famouspaper on the electrodynamics of moving bodies ( annalen der physik ,17, 1905) was refuted within a year by kaufman (in the same journal) whose-ray experiments showed that the deviations from the predictions of the theory were considerably beyond the limits of error that could be attributedtohis equipment. einstein agreed, but rationalized: only after a diverse body of observations becomes available will it be possible to decide with

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 351 con dence whether systematic deviations are due to a not yet recognized source of errors or to the circumstance that the foundations of the theory of relativity do not correspond to the facts (einstein, 1907 ,p.283, ital- ics are mine). as it turned out, kaufmans apparatus was later found to befaulty. ifyoulook at what experimental economists do, not what they say, you get the right picture of science learning. when a theory works well, they pushimaginatively to nd deliberately destructive experiments that will uncoverits edges of validity, setting the stage for better theory and a better under-standing of the phenomena. when a theory works poorly, they reexamineinstructions for lack of clarity, increase the experience level of subjects, tryincreased payoffs, and explore sources of error in an attempt to nd thelimits of the falsifying conditions; again, this is for the purpose of betterunderstanding the anatomy of a theorys failure, or the procedures for test-ing it, and thereby laying the basis for improving the theory. ultimately, theprocedures under which a theory is tested should be part of the theory. 9but this step requires theorists models to reect a close understanding of thecircumstances that produced the observations. iamindebted to timothy taylor, don mccloskey, and alan krueger for helpful comments and editing of an earlier version. notes 1.where a ppropriate, references to work by me and my coauthors will be to the paper numbers in smith ( 1991 ). 2.selten ( 1989 )offers a measure of predictive success. i use the terms prediction and implication of a theoretical model interchangeably. consistency with a prediction does not require that the theory be done in advance of an obser- vation. 3.that this description applies to markets in the eld has been demonstrated byforsy the et al. ( 1992 ), who report the remarkable forecasting accuracy of their presidential stock market, which beats the opinion polls by a wide margin. 4.kachelmeier and shehata ( 1992 )report that these results also hold in cross- cultural comparisons of subjects from china, the united states and canada. 5.aumann (1987, p. 473) has emphasized in unmistakable terms this requirement of game theory: it is not enough that each player be fully aware of the rules of thegame and the utility functions of the players. each player must also be aware of this fact...t h e r ei se v i d e n c e that game theorists had been vaguely cognizant of the need for some such requirement ever since the late fties or early sixties; but therst to give a clear, sharp formulation was the philosopher d. k. lewis (in 1969).lewis de ned an event as common knowledge among a set of agents if all know it, all know that all know it, and so on ad innitum. the common knowledgeassumption underlies all of game theory and much of economic theory. whatever

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 352 vernon smith be the model under discussion, whether complete or incomplete information, consistent or inconsistent, repeated or one-shot, cooperative or noncooperative, the model itself must be assumed common knowledge; otherwise the model isinsufciently specied, and the analysis incoherent. 6.of relevance here is the getting to common knowledge theorem discussed inthis journal by geanakoplos ( 1992 ). the theorem is driven by a process in which all agents observe in turn each agents action. at some nite time, t ,a l la g ents have common knowledge of what each agent will do in the future. the assetexperiments conrm the predictions of the theorem. but this does not imply that the subjects in the experiments go through a reasoning process like thatwhich is used to prove the theorem. in fact, subjects would have great difcultyarticulating the means whereby they reached their unwillingness to trade awayfrom fundamental value. 7.atthe other pole from harrison stand some psychologists who downplay the evidence; that monetary payoffs can have a signicant affect on outcomes. t o wit: weagree with smith and walker ( 1993 )that monetary incentives could improve performance under certain conditions by eliminating careless errors (tverskyand kahneman, 1992 ,p.316). the reader will not nd any statement like this in the cited reference to agree with. the errors we discuss are not careless; theyare deviations from optimality attributed to decision costs. if subjects care lessabout getting it right when there are zero or low rewards, and decision is costly,this is because it is in their interest to care less. we canvass 31 studies in whichincreasing rewards relative to baseline either reduces the deviations of the dataaround the theorys prediction, or moves the central tendency of the data closertothis prediction. 8.of course, one can always offer the incredible argument that any recalcitrantcase would go away if you just made payoff opportunity cost large enough. butthis argument simply shows the limitations of a theory that postulates motivatedagents, but is devoid of all detail as to that motivation. auxiliary hypothesesin experimental economics that have to do with key issues involving the state ofthe agent like motivation and experience (learning), must ultimately be incor-porated into the theory, not banished to the realm of auxiliary hypotheses forthe experimentalists to worry about. 9.this is recognized by bicchieri ( 1988 ), brandenberger ( 1992 ), geanakoplos (1992 )and others when they model common knowledge as part of the the- ory of backward induction games. it is common for background assumptionevent ually to be made part of the theory. refere nces alger, dan, investigating oligopolies within the laboratory ,astaff report of the bureau of economics of the federal trade commission, washington, d.c., january 1986. aumann, robert j., game theory. in eatwell, john, murray milgate, and peter new- man, eds., the new palgrave: a dictionary of economics. 2. london: macmillian press ltd., 46082. bicchieri, cristina, backward inducti on without common knowledge, philosophy of science association ,1988, 2,32943.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 353 bolton, gary e., a comparative model of bargaining: theory and evidence, american economic review ,december 1991, 81:5,1096136. brandenberger, adam, knowledge and equilibrium in games, journal of economic perspectives ,fall 1992, 6:4, 83101. brown-kruse, jamie, contestability in the presence of an alternate market: an exper- imental examination, rand journal of economics ,spring 1991, 22,13647. brown-kruse, jamie, laboratory t ests of buyer rationing rules in bertrand-edgeworth duopolies, working paper, department of economics ,u n i v e r sity of colorado, 1992. camerer, colin f., george loewenstein, and martin weber, the curse of knowledge in economic settings: an experimental analysis, journal of political economy ,o c t o b e r 1989, 97:5, 123254. chu, yun-peng, and ruey-ling chu, the subsidence of preference reversals in sim- plied and marketlike experimental settings: a note, american economic review , september 1990, 80:4, 90211. cox, james c., and ronald oaxaca, laboratory experiments with a finite-horizon job-search model, journal of risk and uncertainty ,september 1989, 2:3, 30129. cox, james c., and david grether, the preference reversal phenomenon: response mode, markets and incentives, working paper, economic science laboratory ,u n i v e r - sity of arizona, july 1992. cox, james c., and vernon l. smith, endogenous entry and common value auctions, working paper, economic science laboratory ,university of arizona, july 1992. davis, douglas, and charles a. holt, experimental economics .p rinceton: princeton university press, 1992. deng, gang, et al., fairness: effect on t emporary and equilibrium prices in posted offer markets, working paper, department of economics ,u n i v e r sity of arizona, october 1992. einstein, albert, on the relativity principle and the conclusions drawn from it, (1907). in the collected papers of albert einstein (translated by anna beck), volume 2. princeton: princeton university press, [1989], 252311. forsythe, robert, thomas palfrey, and char les plott, asset valuation in an experimental mark et,econometrica ,may1982, 50:3, 53767. forsythe, r., j. horowitz, n. savin, and m. sefton, replicability, fairness and pay in experiments with simple bargaining games, university of iowa working paper 8830, 1988, forthcoming in games and economic behavior . forsythe, robert, forrest nelson, george r. neumann, and jack wright, anatomy of an experimental political stock market, american economic review ,december 1992, 82:5, 114261. fouraker, lawrence e., and sidney siegel, bargaining behavior .n e wy o r k :m cgraw-hill, 1963. franciosi, robert, praveen kujal, roland michelitsch, and vernon l. smith, experi- mental t ests of the endowment effect, working paper, economic science laboratory , university of arizona, march 1993. franklin, allan, experiment, right or wrong .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1990. friedman, daniel, and john rust, eds., the double auction market: institutions, theories and evidence .reading: addison wesley sfi, 1992.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 354 vernon smith friedman, milton, aprogram for monetary stability .new y ork: fordham university press, 1960. geanakoplos, john, common knowledge, journal of economic perspectives ,fall 1992, 6:4, 5382. gillette, david, and robert delmas, psycho-economics: studies in decision making, classroom expernomics ,newsletter published by department of economics, manage- ment and accounting, marietta college, fall 1992, 1,15. harr ison, glenn, theory and misbehavior of first price auctions: reply, american economic review ,december 1992, 82:5, 142643. hoffman, elizabeth, bibliography of experimental economics, working paper, depart- ment of economics, university of arizona, 1991. hoffman, elizabeth, and mathew spitzer, entitlements, rights and fairness: an exper- imental examination of subjects concepts of distributive justice, journal of legal studies ,june 1985, 14,25997. hoffman, elizabeth, kevin a. mccabe, keith shachat, and vernon l. smith, preferences, property rights and anonymity in bargaining games, working paper, university of arizona, september 1992, forthcoming in games and economic behavior . kachelmeier, steven j., stephen t. limberg, and michael s. schadewald, a laboratory market examination of the consumer price resp onse to information about producers cost and prots, the accounting review ,october 1991, 66,694717. kachelmeier, steven j., and mohamed shehata, culture and competition, journal of economic behavior and organization ,october 1992, 19,14568. kagel, john h., and dan levin, the winners curse and public information in common value auctions, american economic review ,december 1986, 76:5, 894920. kahneman, daniel, jack k. knetsch, and richard thaler, fairness as a constraint on prot seeking: entitlements in the market, american economic review ,s e p t e m b e r 1986, 76:4, 72841. kahneman, daniel, jack k. knetsch, and richard thaler, experimental t ests of the endowment effect and the coase theorem, journal of political economy ,d e c e m b e r 1990, 98,132548. lichtenstein, sarah, and paul slovic, reversals of preference between bids and choices in gambling decision, journal of experimental psychology ,july 1971, 89,4655. mccabe, kevin a., fiat money as a store of value in an experimental market, journal ofeconomic behavior and organization ,october 1989, 12:2, 21531. mccabe, kevin a., stephen j. rassenti, and vernon l. smith, designing a uniform price double auction. in friedman, d., and j. rust, eds., the double auction market; institutions, theories and evidence .reading: addison wesley sfi, 1992, 30732. noussari, charles, and david porter, allocating priority with auctions, journal of economic behavior and organization ,october 1992, 19,16995. plott, charles r., and vernon l. smith, an experimental examination of two exchange institutions, reviewofeconomic studies ,february 1978, 45:1, 13353. plott, charles, some policy applications of experimental methods. in roth, a. e., ed., laboratory experimentation in economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1987, 193219. porter, david, and vernon l. smith, futures markets, dividend certainty and common expectations in asset markets, mimeo, department of economics, university ofarizona, april 1989 (revised november 1992).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 355 roseveare, n. t., mercurys perihelion from le verrier to einstein .oxford, u.k.: clarendon press, 1982. roth, alvin e., bargaining phenomena and bargaining theory. in roth, a. e., ed., laboratory experimentation in economics .cambridge, u.k.: cambridge university press, 1987, 1441. samuelson, william, and richard zeckhauser, status quo bias in decision making, journal of risk and uncertainty ,march 1988, 1:1, 759. schelling, t. c., bargaining, communication and limited war, journal of conict reso lution ,1957, 1,1936. selten, reinhard, properties of a measure of predictive success, university of bonn discussion paper no. 13130, october 1989. siegel, sidney, and lawrence e. fouraker, bargaining and group decision making: exper- iments in bilateral monopoly .new y ork: mcgraw-hill, 1960. simon, herbert a., a behavioral model of rational choice, quarterly journal of eco- nomics ,february 1955, 69,99118. smith, vernon l., papers in experimental economics .n e wy o r k :c a m b r idge university press, 1991. smith, vernon l., and james m. walker, monetary rewards and decision cost in experimental economics, economic inquiry ,april 1993, 31,24561. thaler, richard, t oward a positive theory of consumer choice, journal of economic behavior and organization ,march 1980, 1:1, 3960. tversky, amos, and daniel kahneman, advances in prospect theory: accumulative representation of uncertainty, journal of risk and uncertainty ,october 1992, 5:4, 297323. vanboening, mark v ., and nathaniel t. wilcox, a fixed cost exception to the hayek hypothesis. paper presented at the economic science association meetings, tucson, arizona, october 24, 1992.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 nineteen neuroeconomics using neuroscience to make economic predictions colin f. camerer colin f. camerer (1959 ) was educated at johns hopkins and the university of chicago and since 1994 has been a professor of economics at the california insti-tute of t echnology. camerers research lies at the boundaries between cognitivepsychology, neurophysiology, and economics. he is deeply involved in experimen-tal economics, and his book, behavioral game theory ,isthe most comprehensive recent survey of experimentation in economics. neuroeconomics seeks to ground economic theory in detailed neural mechanisms which are expressed mathematically and mak ebehavioural predictions. one nd- ing is that simple kinds of economising for life-and-death decisions (food, sexand danger) do occur in the brain as rational theories assume. another set ofndings appears to support the neural basis of constructs posited in behaviouraleconomics, such as a preference for immediacy and nonlinear weighting of smalland large probabilities. a third direction shows how understanding neural cir-cuitry permits predictions and causal experiments which show state-dependenceof revealed preference except that states are biological and neural variables. neuroeconomics seeks to ground microeconomic theory in details about how the brain works (zak, 2004; camerer etal.,2004; chorvat and mccabe, 2005; sanfey etal.,2006). neuroeconomics is a subeld of behavioural economics-behavioural economics which uses empirical evidence of limitson computation, willpower and greed to inspire new theories; see mul-lainathan and thaler, (2000); camerer, (2005). it is also a subeld of this article was prepared for the hahn lecture, royal economic society, nottingham uk, april20, 2006. thanks to all my collaborators whose joint work is reported (ralph adolphs, meghana bhatt, ming hsu, michael spezio, dan tranel, joseph wang), to ras min rang and alex brown, to sceptics for forcing us to think harder and write more clearly about theenterprise, and to many neuroscientists (espe cially ralph adolf, john allman, paul glimcher, john odoherty and read montague) for tutoring and advice over the last few years. economic journal ,vol. 117 (march, 2007): c26c42. reproduced by permission of blackwell publishing. 356

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 357 experimental economics because neuroeconomics requires mastery of dif- cult experimental tools which are new to economists (discussed in fur- ther detail in section 1below). and to many neuroscientists, the greatest promise of neuroeconomics is to supply theories and experimental designsfor neuroscience. these neuroscientists feel that the kinds of models andtasks economists use routinely can contribute to systems neuroscienceunderstanding of higher-order cognition, which are challenging for neu-roscientists who are used to focusing on very ne details of neurobiology and specic brain areas. tomodern economists, the neuroeconomic approach seems to be a sharp turn in economic thought. around the turn of the nineteenth century, neo-classical economists made a clear methodological choice, to treat the mindas a black box and ignore its details for the purpose of economic theory(bruni and sugden, 2007). in an 1897 letter pareto wrote itis an empirical fact that the natural sciences have progressed only when they have taken secondary principles as their point of departure, instead of trying to discover the essence of things ...purepolitical economy has therefore a great interest in relying as little as possible on the domain of psychology (quoted in busino, 1964, p. xxiv). paretosview that psychology should be deliberately ignored was partly reective of a pessimism of his time, about the ability to ever understand the brain well enough to use neural detail as a basis for individual economis- ing. (this pessimism was also manifested in the behaviourist psychology ofwatson and skinner, who turned attention away from the mentalism of their time to stimulus-response relations and conditioning.) aswilliam jevons wrote a little earlier, in theory of political economy ihesitate to say that men will ever have the means of measuring directly the feelings of the human heart. it is from the quantitative effects of the feelings that we must estimate their comparative amounts (jevons, 1871). this turn-of-the-century pessimism about understanding the brain led directly to the rise of as if rational choice models in neoclassical economics. models of this sort posit individual behaviour which is consistent with logical principles, but do not put any evidentiary weight on direct tests ofwhether those principles are followed. for example, if a consumers choicesare transitive and complete, then she acts as if she attaches numerical utilitiestobundles of goods and chooses the bund le with the highest utility, but direct measurement of utility is thought to be irrelevant as a test of the theory. the ignorance of psychology that pareto explicitly advocated was cemented by milton friedmans (1953) development of positive economics . friedman, and the many economists inuenced by his view, advocated two

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 358 colin f. camerer principles for judging theories which use assumptions atomake a formal prediction p: 1. assumptions ashould be judged by the accuracy of the predictions p they mathematically imply. 2. since false assumptions can yield accurate predictions, even if assump- tions appear false their empirical weakness should be tolerated if theylead to accurate predictions p. iwholeheartedly endorse the rst principle (1), but not the corollary principle (2). here is why: rst, if assumptions aare false but lead to an accurate prediction, they presumably do so because of a hidden repair condition r (that is, (not-a and r)pisamore complete theory at both ends than ap). then the proper focus of progressive research should be specifying the repair assumption rand exploring its implications, in conjunction with more accurate assumptions. second, the importance of making good predictions (1) is precisely the reason to explore alternative assumptions grounded in psychological and neuroscientic facts. we do this in behavioural economics because we hopethat models based on more accurate assumptions will make some interestingnew predictions, and better predictions overall. as-if models based on dubious assumptions clearly work well in many respects, and always will (just as expected value is still a useful tool for some kinds of analysis, even though it is a severe restriction of expected utility). buttests of the predictions that follow from as-if rational choice have also estab- lished many empirical anomalies. behavioural economics describes theseregularities and suggests formal models to explain them (camerer, 2007). debates between rational-choice and behavioural models usually revolve around psychological constructs, such as loss-aversion (kahneman andtversky, 1979), the role of learning and limited strategic thinking, a prefer-ence for immediate rewards, and precise pr eferences over social allocations, which have not been observed directly. but technology now allows us to openthe black box of the mind and observe brain activity directly. these directobservations can only enhance the development of theories which are basedon more accurate assumptions andmake better predictions as a result. ananalogy to organisational economics illustrates the potential of neu- roeconomics (sanfey etal.,2006). until the 1970s, the theory of the rm was basically a reduced-form model of how capital and labour are com-bined to create a production function. the idea that a rm just combineslabour and capital is obviously a gross simplication it neglects the details

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 359 of principal-agent relations, gift exchange and efciency wages, social net- worksand favour exchange in rms, substitution of authority for pricing, corporate culture and so forth. but the gross simplication is useful, for the purpose of building up an industry supply curve. later, contract theory opened up the black-box of the rm and mod- elled the details of the nexus of contracts between shareholders, workersand managers. the new theory of the rm replaces the (perennially use- ful) ction ofaprot-maximising rm which has a single goal, with a more detailed account of how components of the rm individuals, hierarchies, and networks interact and communicate to determine rm behaviour. neuroeconomics proposes to do the same by treating an individual eco- nomic agent like a rm. the last sentence in the previous paragraph can beexactly rewritten to replace rms and the components of rms with individ- uals and neural components of individuals. rewriting that sentence givesthis one: the neuroeconomic theory of the individual replaces the (perenni- ally useful) ction of a utility-maximising individual which has a single goal, with a more detailed account of how components of the individual brain regions, cognitive control, and neural circuits interact and communicate to determine individual behaviour. the rapid emergence of various dual-self or dual-process approaches tes- ties to how well economic theory can be adapted to study the brain asan organisation of interacting comp onents. fudenberg and levine (forth- coming) emphasise the struggle between a long-run player and a short-run player, adapted from game-theoretic models (see also shefrin and thalersprescient, 1988, planner-doer model). 1benhabib and bisin (2005) empha- sise the constraint that controlled executive processes put on automaticprocesses. bernheim and rangel (forthcoming) emphasise hot impulsivestates (akin to automatic process, but perhaps driven by visceral factors likedrug craving or hunger) and cold states. loewenstein and odonoghue(2004) emphasise deliberate processes and affective ones. brocas and car-illo (2005) emphasise how a cortical control process constrains an emotionalprocess which may be asymmetrically informed. so far, there is little directneural evidence testing these various models and comparing them. doingso is an obvious immediate direction for research (and will contribute tobasic neuroscience as well). itis important to note that the focus of neuroeconomic research so far is largely on microeconomics foundations of consumer choice, valuing risky gambles, and strategic thinking. it remains to be seen whether neural mea-surement will be useful for understanding macroeconomic phenomena likeconsumer condence or stock market bubbles. however, many of these

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 360 colin f. camerer macro phenomena might spring from the interaction of many brains that are tightly linked through social networks and common responses to emo-tional and news shocks which can be reciprocal or contagious. if so, macromodels could explore how the result of brain activity has a multiplier effectin the economy. 1. neuroscientic facts and tools 1.1. facts some basic facts about the human brain are useful for economists to know,tounderstand the evidence presented below and to provide constraint on theorising. the brain is weakly modular, in the sense that not every brain area con- tributes to every behaviour. (that is, the early phrenologists were on the right track, but had too crude a concept of how localised complex behaviour or traits like virtue and sloth were.) while the brain is modular, it isalso plastic responsive to environment as brain software is graduallyinstalled . plasticity is most obvious in childhood development but seemstocontinue well into adolescence. plasticity is the reason why neuroscientists usually bristle at the term hard-wired , which economists often use casually. while neuroscientists often focus on specic brain areas which are cyto- architecturally distinct (i.e., they have distinct tissue, neurons, and neuro-transmitters), for tasks economists are interested in the proper focus is cir- cuits of multiple brain areas. the importance of circuitry also implies thatthe right kinds of models are computational ones in which well-understoodcomponents collaborate to create behaviour. attention and consciousness are scarce, and the brain is evolved to off- load decisions by automating activity through learning. automaticity meansthat people are capable of creating tremendous expertise which relies on sub-conscious intuition and pattern recognition. it also means that overcoming automated behaviour takes scarce conscious effort and is often a source ofmistakes in stroop tasks . 2 the human brain is basically the primate brain with extra neocortex; and the primate brain is a simpler mammalian brain with some neocortex. thisevolutionary history is the main reason why experiments with animals are so informative about human behaviour. (t o think otherwise is economic cre-ationism.) for example, rats become biologically addicted to all substancesthat humans become addicted to (nicotine, opiates, alcohol etc.). our sharedevolutionary past, and inherited brain regions, do not imply that humans always behave like monkeys (though we sometimes do). our shared past just

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 361 implies that when humans struggle to control animal impulses (such as drug addiction), the struggle is between the neocortex and older temporal-lobeareas. knowing which areas are involved in the struggle is useful for craftingtheory and for prescribing treatments. 1.2. tools muchof the potential of neuroeconomics comes from relatively recent improvements in technology for measuring brain activity (particularlyfmri), and in matching older technologies (such as eyetracking and eeg)with new tasks. fmri uses magnetic resonance imaging, popular for decades for med- ical diagnosis, at rapid frequencies to measure oxygenated blood ow inthe brain (which is correlated with neural input). the spatial resolution offmri is about 3 cubic millimetre voxels and its temporal resolution is 2 sec-onds. stronger magnetic elds are unlikely to provide much more improve-ment (and may pose health risks, which modern 3-tesla magnets do not);but improvement may come from innovation in experimental design andstatistics. positron emission t omography (pet) is an earlier scanning technol- ogy which injects radioactive solutio n(usually glucose with a radioactive marker). pet temporal resolution is worse than fmri (minutes rather thanseconds) but glucose is a more direct correlate of neural activity than bloodow. fmri and pet are good for roughly identifying areas that are active in atask. once candidate circuits are established, it is useful to ask whether behaviour is changed when parts of the circuit are broken or disrupted. studies of patients with brain lesions are useful for testing hypotheses from fmri. if a patient with damage to area xcannot perform a task t normally, then area xis part of a normal circuit for doing t.(lesion data are reported below in a study of the ellsberg paradox in ambiguous choice.)transcranial magnetic stimulation (tms) can knock out or activate brain areas, and hence is useful for knowing what targeted areas do. the animalmodel is also useful because invasive surgeries and genetic engineering canbe done with animals, as a substitute for exogenous lesions and correlationalstudies in humans. am uch more detailed level of data comes from recording activity of a single neuron at a time, mostly from primates (and, rarely, from humanneurosurgical patients in whom electrodes have been planted to detect loca-tions of epileptic seizures to locate surgical targets).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 362 colin f. camerer older tools continue to be useful. the electroencephalogram (eeg) recordsvery rapid (millisecond) electrical activity from outer brain areas, and can sometimes be used to interpolate activity in areas deeper in the brain. psychophysiological recording (of skin conductance, heart rate andpupil dilation, for example) are cheap and easy too. tracking where peopleare looking on a screen (eyetracking) is also very easy and useful for manyquestions economists ask. directly observing the information people usetomake decisions provides a second dependent variable that can be used, in conjunction with observed choices, to identify decision rules better thanchoices alone can. agreat strength of neuroscience is that investigators who have mastered these tools compete ercely (for grants, students, and space in science and natu re);their erce competition creates a bonus for methodological inno- vation and weeds out weak results. the tools are also complements becauseeach tool can compensate for the weaknesses of others (e.g., having an fmrinding makes data from patients with lesions in the areas identied by fmriespecially valuable). recognising this complementarity, neuro-scientists aremost comfortable with ideas that are consistent with many types of datarecorded in different ways at different levels of temporal and spatial res- olution. happily for econo mists, many of our simplest questions can be illuminated by the simple measures (e.g., eye tracking and psychophysio-logical recording). ambitious graduate students interested in this eld arewell advised to pick one tool that can help answer the questions they are interested in, and master it. neuroeconomics is likely to provide three types of evidence about eco- nomic behaviour. examples of each type of evidence are given in the nextthree sections of this paper. 3the three kinds of evidence are: 1. evidence which shows mechanisms that implement rational choice (utility-maximisation and bayesian integration of information), typi-cally in tasks that are highly-sculpted to make decisions that are usefulfor survival across species (vision, food, sex and danger). 2. evidence which supports the kinds of variables and parameters intro- duced in behavioural economics. 3. evidence which suggests the inuence of new variables that are implicit, underweighted, or missing in rational-choice theory. 2. evidence for rational choice principles inmany simple choice domains, evolution has had a long time to sculpt cross-species mechanisms that are crucial for survival and reproduction

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 363 (involving food, sex and danger). in these domains, evolution has either cre- ated neural circuits which approximate bayesian-rational choice, or learningmechanisms that generate bayesian-rational choice with sufcient experi-ence in a stationary environment, putting to use highly-developed capacitiesfor sensory evaluation (vision, taste, smell, sound), memory and social imi-tation. forexample, platt and glimcher (1999) nd remarkable neurons in mon- keylateral intraparietal cortex (lip) which re at a rate that is almost per- fectly correlated with the expected value of an upcoming juice reward, trig-gered by a monkey eye movement (saccade); see also bayer and glimcher(2005). deaner etal.(2005) nd that monkeys can reliably trade off juice rewards with exposure to visual images (including images of females from behind and faces of high and low status conspecic monkeys). monkeys canalso learn to approximate mixed-strategies in games (glimcher etal.,2005), probably using generalised reinforcement algorithms (lee etal.,2004). neu- roscientists are also nding prefrontal neurons that appear to express values of choices (padoa-schioppa and assad, 2006) and potential locations ofneural currency that creates tradeoffs (conover and shizgal, 2005). fol- lowing a long tradition in animal economies (kagel etal.,1995), chen etal. (2006) show that capuchin monkeys respond to price changes, obeying thegarp axiom, when exchanging tokens for different food rewards. another literature shows that bayesian models are accurate approxima- tions of how different kinds of sensory information are integrated (stockerand simoncelli, 2006). these data are in sharp contrast with many cognitivepsychology experiments showing that bayesian principles are violated whenintelligent humans evaluate abstract events (kahneman, 2003). it is dif-cult to reconcile these two literatures directly, because it is difcult to createtasks in which monkeys have to judge the kind of abstract questions peopleare asked like whether basketball players have a hot hand or whetherrepresentative conjunctions of events ( f b)aremore likely than their compon ent events ( fand bjudged separately). common paradigms that can be used across species represent a huge challenge that would be very use-ful for either reconciling the results across species or establishing why theydiffer. 3. evidence for behavioural economics principles this section discusses four areas in which neuroscience has established sometentative neural foundation for ideas from behavioural economics which werederived earlier from experiments and eld data. the four areas are: time discounting; aversion to missing information about probability

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 364 colin f. camerer (ambiguity); nonlinear weighting of probability; and limited strategic think- ing in games. 3.1. time discounting extensive experiments with animals, and later with humans, establishedthat the discount factor put on future rewards is closer to a hyperbola,1 (1 kt), than an exponentially-declining discount factor t.laibson (1997) borrowed a two-piece discounting function introduced to explainparental bequests, to model quasi-hyperbolic discounting. in the model, agents put a weight of one on current rewards, and weight futurerewards at discrete time t 0b y t.( w h e n 1the two-parameter func- tion reduces to an exponential.) odonoghue and rabin (1999) dubbed thetermapresent bias and explore its implications. various eld and exper- imental data suggest values of around 0.60.8. 4tosearch for and processes in the brain, mcclure etal.(2004) presented subjects with choices between a current reward and a reward with a one-month delay (which acti-vates both andsystems), and other choices with a one-month or two- month delay (in which the compon ent divides out and only remains). they nd activity in areas often associated with an emotional limbic system(medial frontal cortex, cingulate and ventral striatum) when comes into play, and nd distinct activity in lateral orbitofrontal cortex and dorsolateralcortexlinked to the system. their study is hardly the last word in fact, it is the rst word but is consistent with discounting being a splice of twoprocesses. 3.2. ambiguity-aversion insubjective expected utility theory, the willingness to take bets on events is taken to reveal subjective probabilities of those events. the ellsberg para-dox showed that for a small majority of subjects, when two events areequally likely but poorly understood (or ambiguous), revealed decisionweights seem to combine judgment of likelihood and an additional factor which leads to an aversion to betting under ambiguity. theories of nonaddi-tive probability and set-valued probabilities loosely ascribe this ambiguity-aversion to pessimism or fear of betting in the face of unknown information. ambiguity-aversion has been implicated in home bias in nancial invest- ment (a preference for investing in stocks in ones own country, or rm, orrms nearby), in robust control in macroeconomics, and in other economicdomains (hsu etal.,2005). scottish law provides a useful practical example.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 365 inscottish law there are three verdicts guilty, not guilty and unproven . anunproven verdict results when there is too little evidence to determine guilt or innocence (often in sexual assault cases, since scottish law requiresacorroborating witness besides a testifying victim). unproven verdicts are usually the jurys way of expressing an aversion to rendering either verdict,often shaming a victim they believe is guilty but cannot legally nd guiltybecause of evidentiary rules which create reasonable doubt. since decision theorists forming axioms are not generally thinking about brain activity adhering to those axioms, it is difcult to nd descriptionswhich are suggestive of neural activity. but raiffa (1961) wrote: butifcertain uncertainties in the problem were in cloudy or fuzzy [ambiguous] form, then very often there was a shifting of gears and no effort at all was made tothink deliberately and reectively about the problem. systematic decomposition of the problem was shunned and an over-all seat of the pants judgment was madewhich graphically reected the temperament of the decision maker. unfortunately, the seat of the pants is not a brain area, but raiffa does describe a rapid emotional response in the face of ambiguity. hsu etal. (2005) investigated ambiguity and risk using fmri; see also huettel etal. (2006). they found additional activation in valuing bets on ambiguousgambles relative to risky ones (such as bets on low-knowledge events, likethe temperature in tajikistan compared to high-knowledge new y ork). theyfound additional activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal area, orbito-frontalcortex(above the eye sockets, ofc) and the amygdala (a vigilance area, which is rapidly activated in 520 msecs by fearful images, even before they are consciously processed). subjects with higher right ofc activity inresponse to ambiguity also had higher ambiguity-aversion parameters as estimated by a stochastic choice logit model t to gamble valuations. 3.3. nonlinear probability weighting inexpected utility (eu) theory, the utilities of gamble outcomes are weighted bytheir probability p. but many experimental studies suggest that people actually weight probabilit ies nonlinearly with a function (p), overweight- ing low probabilities and underweighting probabilities close to one (the cer-tainty effect); see prelec (1998). overweighting of low p could be importantin pricing insurance and in explaining demand for lottery tickets and thehigh failure rate of new businesses. measuring neural activation in response to variation in probability is made possible by the fact that a fair amount is known about how the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 366 colin f. camerer caudate (a temporal lobe area including the striatum) responds to antici- pated reward. hsu etal.(2006) set out to see whether activation in the stria- tum responded nonlinearly to probability of winning. they rst presentedsimple binary gambles (p, x)which have a p chance of paying x(otherwise they pay zero) for a few seconds, then had subjects choose between the pre-sented gamble and a second gamble (roughly matched for expected value).the choice data enable estimation of parameters of a probability weightingfunction (p). they look at activity in the left and right caudate areas an area in the temporal lobe associated with rewards of many types (juice,cocaine, attractive faces, money, faces of people who have cooperated with you). controlling for the payoff amount x,there is a modest nonlinearity of activity across levels of probability p which is reasonably similar to the non-linear functions shown in prelec (1998). this similarity of indirect estimatesand direct estimates of caudate activity is not conclusive proof that the brainis weighing probabilities nonlinearly, but it is consistent with that hypoth-esis. a likely explanation is that probability estimation is a combination ofalinear weighting and an inverse-s step function which sorts probabilities crudely into no, maybe, yes . 5combining the two gives a regressive function that overweighs low p and underweighs high p, and is consistent with thebrain acti vation. 3.4. limited strategic thinking ingame theory, players are in equilibrium when they optimise and guess correctly what other players will do that is, when their beliefs about other players strategies match the actual strategies others choose. camerer etal. (2004) describe an alternative cognitive hierarchy (ch) theory in whichplayers use various steps of strategic thinking. some step-0 players ran-domise, other step-1 players anticipate randomisation and best-respond toit, step-2 players best-respond to a mixture of step-0 and step-1 players,and so on. since the highest-step players anticipate correctly the distribu-tion of what other players will do, their beliefs are in equilibrium, but thebeliefs of lower-step thinkers are not in equilibrium because they do notguess correctly what higher-step players will do. this model (and earlierversions introduced by others) ts empirical data from dozens of game experiments with many different structural forms (mixed-equilibria, coor- dination, dominance-solvable games and so forth). tolook for evidence of limited strategic thinking in the brain, bhatt and camerer (2005) did fmri of players when they made choices, and whenthey expressed beliefs about what other players would do. they found that

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 367 (a) in equilibrium ( b) out of equilibrium figure 19.1. differences in brain activity during choosing a strategy and expressing a belief about another players strategy (bhatt and camerer, 2005). equilibrium trials (a) show only a difference in ventral striatum (a reward antic- ipation area). out-of-equilibrium trials (b) show stronger activity in choosing thanin belief expression (highlighting paracingulate and dorsolateral prefrontal (dlpfc)areas), which suggests subjects are not reasoning strategically about other players. when players choices and beliefs were in equilibrium, there was almost perfect overlap in brain activity during choosing and belief expression that is, creating equilibrium beliefs requires players to imagine how othersare choosing, which uses overlapping neural circuitry with making yourownchoice (figure 19.1). when players were out of equilibrium, there was much more activity when making a choice than when expressing abelief (as would be expected from 0 and 1-step thinkers, who are thinkingharder about their own choice than they are about choices of other players).thus, being in equilibrium is not merely a mathematical restriction onequality of choices and beliefs, it is also a state of mind identiable by brainimaging. 4. evidence for new psychological variables the largest payoff from neuroeconomics will not come from ndingrational-choice processes in the brain for complex economic decisions, or from supporting ideas in behavioural economics derived from experimen-tal and eld data (as shown by examples in the last two sections). thelargest innovation may come from pointing to biological variables whichhave a large inuence on behaviour and are underweighted or ignored instandard theory. this section lists a few speculative examples. they suggest

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 368 colin f. camerer that the concept of a preference is not a primitive (as pareto suggested); preferences are both the output of a neural choice process, and an inputwhich can be used in economic theory to study responses to changes inprices and wealth. this view implies that if we understand what variablesaffect preferences, we can shift preferences and shift behaviour (withoutchanging prices or constraints). whether this can be done reliably or on alarge scale is not yet known. the goal at this point is just to show that understanding biology and the brain can make fresh predictions aboutobserved choices. at this point, there are few such predictions and theyfocus on small effects at the individual level. but given the youth of theeld, having any such examples is suggestive and they point in interestingdirections. 1. in the ambiguity study described in the last section (hsu etal.,2005), there is a modest correlation of right ofc activity with a parame-tercharacterising the degree of ambiguity-aversion, which is derived from estimation using choices. (the parameter is derived implicitly from the weight (e(p) )given to an event with expected or diffuse- prior probability p. the value 1isambiguity-neutrality. a value 1corresponds to ambiguity-aversion; an ambiguity-averse per- son acts as if the decision weight on an ambiguous event is lowerthan its expected probability.) one can extrapolate statistically fromthe correlation between ofc activation and in normal subjects to infer the behavioural value of that would be revealed by choices of aperson with no ofc activity at all due to a lesion in that area, say (see figure 19.2). the extrapolated estimate is 0.85 (roughly ambiguity-neutral, given sampling error). in fact, hsu etal.also tested ellsberg-type problems on patients with ofc damage subsuming theareas observed in fmri. those patients choices exhibited a value of 0.82. i would love to say this value was truly predicted before the fact, but it was not (both studies were conducted in parallel). inany case, there is a close link between the behavioural parameter pre-dicted by extrapolating from the fmri evidence to patients with noactivity, and the extrapolated parameter is close to the gure revealedbychoices. while this correspondence could be construed as consistent with axiomatic theories of ambiguity-aversion, no theory would have predicted it without the fmri evidence to tell us what lesion patientswould be roughly ambiguity-neutral. 2. wang etal.(2006) studied experimentally a classic biased- transmission game that has been widely used in economics and

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 369 1.2 1 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.40 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 2r 0.55 y 0.85right orbitofrontal (contrast values) . ambiguity preference parameter observed ( . contrast) ols fated linelinear extrapolation of fitted ols equationat y 0 figure 19.2. correlation between individual-specic ambiguity-aversion parameters estimated from choices (x-axis, higher is more ambiguity-aversion) and differen- tial activity in right orbitofrontal cortex in ambiguous vs. risky gamble evaluation(y-axis). positive correlation (r 0.55) indicates more ambiguity-averse people have more dif- ferential activity in rofc. extrapolating to a person with no ofc activity (y 0) gives an inferred ambiguity-aversion of 0.85. the actual behavioural parameter derived from choices of patients with ofc lesions was 0.82. political science. in this game, a sender observes a state s,an inte- ger from 1 to 5 (uniformly distributed). the sender then chooses aninteger message mfrom 1 to 5. a receiver knows the setup of the game, and learns the message, but does not know the true state directly. the receiver then chooses an action afrom 1 to 5. (the game is like secu- rityanalysts who know more about the value of a stock than you do, make a recommendation, and want you to act as if the stock is morevaluable than it is, because of career concerns or other collateral inter-ests.) in the interesting conditions, the senders earn the most if thereceiver chooses s b,w h e r e bis a known bias parameter (either 1 or 2). we try to predict the true state from the senders message m, and from their pupil dilation (expansion of pupils) when they sendtheir message. pupils dilate under arousal, stress and deception (thatis why poker players wear sunglasses if they are allowed to). statisticaltests show that measuring the pupil dilation improves substantially in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 370 colin f. camerer predicting what the true state is. thus, a biological variable helps infer private information which is conveyed by messages, in a way that isnot explicitly predicted by conventional game theory. 3. sanfey etal.(2003) used fmri to see what areas were differentially active in the brains of responders in an ultimatum game, when theresponders received a fair offer ( 4 5out of 10) compared to an unfair offer ( 1 2). they found activation in the insula (a discomfort or disgust area, perhaps measuring the emotional reaction to gettingalowoffer), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlpfc, a planning and evaluation area), and anterior cingulate (a conict-resolution area). they also found that whether people rejected low offers or not couldbe predicted with some accuracy from whether the insula was moreactive than dlpfc or vice v ersa. building on this study, wout etal. (2005) and knoch etal.(2006) used repetitive tms to disrupt the dlpfc when people received offers. based on the fmri evidence, theyhypothesised that if the dlpfc is disrupted, the socialised response to unfairness which leads to rejection may be turned off, so that peoplewill exhibit more innate selshness and accept lower offers more often. their prediction was correct. the effects are small and come from onlytwo studies with modest sample sizes, but they show the power of atwo-step process: rst establish parts of neural circuitry that implementabehaviour; then stimulate or disrupt some of those parts and if see if youcancause abehavioural change. 4. oxytocin is a powerful hormone in social bonding (e.g., it surges when mothers breast-feed; and synthetic oxytocin pitocin is administeredin american hospitals to stimulate childbirth). direct measurementfrom blood samples (zak etal.,2005) suggests oxytocin is important in trust. inspired by this evidence, kosfeld etal.(2005) had subjects play a trust game in which one player could choose whether to investmoney or keep it. if she invested, the money doubled in amount andthe responder player (the trustee) could decide how much to repay andhow much to keep. half the subjects were given a synthetic oxytocindose (three puffs in each nostril, then wait an hour) and half were givenaplacebo so the subjects could not tell whether they got the real pitocin or nothing. kosfeld etal.hypothesised that oxytocin would increase trust, and it did. game theory makes predictions about structural variables that might increase trust most reliably, whether the game isrepeated or played once (which does have a strong impact; e.g., chong etal.(forthcoming). but nothing in game theory would have predicted the effect of synthetic oxytocin.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 371 5. conclusion the goal of neuroeconomics is to ground economic theory in details of how the brain works in decision making, strategic thinking, and exchange. oneway to achieve this is to observe processes and constructs which are typicallyconsidered unobservable, to decide between many theories of behavioural anomalies like risk aversion, altruistic punishment, and reciprocity. ihavepresented examples in which neuroeconomic evidence points to any of three conclusions. sometimes rational-choice processes are clearlyevident in brain activity (lip neurons that re at rates almost exactly lin- ear in expected reward). in other cases, the variables or differences pre-dicted by behavioural economics models are evident in discount- ing, ambiguity-aversion and nonlinear probability weighting. in still anothercase, perhaps the most innovative, variables that are not a traditional focusof economic theory have perceptible ef fects and, sometimes, strong effects: patients with ofc damage are unusually ambiguity-neutral (which is con-sistent with fmri evidence identifying the ofc as a locus of ambiguity-aversion processing); pupil dilation helps predict a players private informa- tion when they might be lying; stimulating dlpfc increases acceptance oflow ultimatum offers (because earlier fmri work showed dlpfc activityis correlated with acceptance); and administering oxytocin makes peoplemore trusting. thinking about how the brain implements economic decisions, com- pared to thinking about choices resulting from preference and belief, is likeswitching from watching tv in black and white to watching in colour thereare so many more variables to think about. for economic theorists, a naturalway to think about these phenomena is that many biological state variablesinuence preferences; given those state-dependent preferences, prices andbudget constraints have familiar inuences. i agree with this view, exceptthat we will never fully understand the nature of the state-dependence with-out facts from psychology and neuroscience. furthermore, it is not clearwhether subjects are aware of exogenous inuences that alter these internalstates and how the state-dependence works when a lot of money is on theline (arousal itself can be a big state variable) and when agents are highlyexperienced. there is much obvious future research. one path is to study the multiple- process approaches seriously and look for those processes directly in thebrain, or as they are manifested in behavioural experiments. 6another is to search for evidence of distinctions that are well-established in behaviouraleconomics (such as gain-loss differences, framing effects, emotional

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 372 colin f. camerer foundations of inequality-aversion or social image, and so forth). a more unifying approach is to take the revealed-preference model seriously andsee how far its language can be stretched to accommodate neural evidence,while making new predictions rather than just giving economic names toneural processes. 6. afterword and prologue: the mindless critique, and a reply from the past some economists feel that the central theory in economics revelation ofinherently unobservable preferences and beliefs by observed choices isimmune to empirical evidence from neuroeconomics. their argument isthat economics is only about explaining choices, and neural evidence is notchoices. for example, gul and pesendorfer (2005) suggest one categorisation of economics (which could be called economics tm,because they so sharply legislate what economics is and is not). they write7 ...the requirement that economictmtheories simultaneously account for economictmdata and brain imaging data places an unreasonable burden on economictmtheories (gul and pesendorfer, 2005) some of the examples in sections 3 and 4 were judiciously chosen to address precisely this critique. theories of time discounting and non- linear (p) probability weighting can account for both behavioural data from many choice experiments (and many eld data too) andare consistent with tentative evidence of neural activity. since such theories are possible, is it really an unreasonable burden to ask whether other theories can dothe same? of course, theories that spring from the fertile mind of a theoristwho is simply inspired by psychology, but is not beholden to a large bodyof facts, could prove to be useful theories too. but theories that can explainneural facts and choices should have some advantage over theories which explain only choices, if they are comparably tractable. morefundamentally, the argument against neuroeconomics (or the case for mindless economics, as their papers title calls it) rests mostly on aninteresting hope, and rests a little bit on the history of economic thought.the hope is that all anomalies produced by behavioural economics and neu-roeconomics can be explained (if not predicted) by the enriched language of economics preferences, beliefs, and imperfect information and con-straint. i share that hope, but only if some imperfections and constraints areallowed to be located in the brain in which case, brain evidence is usefulfor understanding those imperfections and constraints and suggesting thebest models of them.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 373 auseful focus for debate is therefore how gracefully (and predictively) conventional economics language can explain the effects on observed choices (and inferred unobservable states) of brain lesions, pupil dilation, tms stim-ulation, and oxytocin. any conventional accounts which absorb these effectssemantically, and then make predictions about them, will be welcomed asinteresting neuroeconomics. the history of economic thought part of the mindless case is more clearly settled. gul and pesendorfer write that populating economic tmmodels with esh-and-blood human beings was never the objective of economiststm. butcolander (2005) reminds us how interested classical economists were in measuring concepts like utility directly, before pareto and the neoclassicalsgave up. edgeworth dreamed of a hedonimeter that could measure utility directly; ramsey fantasised about a psychogalvanometer; and irving fisher wroteextensively, and with a time lag due to frustration, about how utility could be measured directly. edgeworth wrote: ...imagine an ideally perfect instrument, a psychophysical machine, continually registering the height of pleasure experienced by an individual ...from mo ment to moment the hedonimeter varies; the delicate index now ickering with the utterof the passions, now steadied by intellectual activity, low sunk whole hours in theneighbourhood of zero, or momentarily springing up towards innity ... the interest of these early economists in measuring utility directly was to establish a biological cardinal utility scale, which is not a goal of microeco-nomics. in any case, given their ambitions, it is hard to believe at least someof these important gures would not be interested in using the modern toolsthat we do have. if edgeworth were alive today, would he just be makingboxes, or also recording the brain? notes 1.benabou and pyciak (2002) show how the gul and pesendorfer (2001) model of preferences under temptation is mathematically equivalent to a rent-seeking competition between two brain areas, linking the preferential approach to the multiple-selves approach. 2.inthe classic stroop task, people are asked to name the colour of ink a word is printed in. under time pressure, people invariably state the word rather thanthe colour (e.g., if the word black is printed in green ink, they say black , notgreen) at rst, though they can learn over time. the stroop task is now used as a generic term for any automated response which must be overridden bycognitive control. the game simon says is an example. another example is when americans visit england. americans are used to looking to the left for cars approach them when they cross the street but in england cars approach from the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 374 colin f. camerer right. many americans are killed every year because of a stroop mistake. the fact that avoiding a stroop mistake takes conscious effort also predicts that americanswhose conscious attention is absorbed elsewhere when they are crossing the streetin england talking on a cell phone, for example are more likely to be killedthan those who are not distracted. 3.notethat the length of the three sections is not intended to reect either the accumulated regularity in each of the three areas, or likely future results. the lastsection is longer because it presents a more novel perspective, and most directlymeets the critique that neuroeconomics does not provide new insight. 4.angele tosetal.(2001), delia vigna and paserman (2005), tanaka etal.(2006, [url] caltech.edu camerer growth-nth.pdf) and brown etal.(2006) all report estimates from savings data, unemployment data, abstract experimentsin vietnam, and dynamic savings rewards with temptation (respectively) with around 0.60.8. 5.attention and adaptation probably also play crucial roles. while some risks are overweighed, others might be dismissed entirely because they are not imagined or attended to. there is no experimental paradigm to turn on and off attention tolow probability risks; having one would be useful, as would eld measurementsof actual attention to risks. 6.forexample, the bernheim-rangel, fudenberg-levine, and time prefer- ence models all predict that subjects whoaretempted by immediate rewards will make different decisions if current choices are not consumed until a time sufciently far in the future (so that the hot self , short-run player , or present-biased current players myopic preferences are disabled). brown etal.(2006) nd the rst direct evidence of such an effect in dynamic savings experiments,when thirsty subjects decide how much of a thirst-slaking beverage to consume.when subjects have to order in advance , by making choices at period twhich are not consumed until period t 10, they consume less and earn more overall rewards. calibrating parameters to actual decisions yields sensible esti- mates of 0.90 and 0.620.72 (the latter depends on whether agents are sophisticated about their present bias, or na ve). 7.inthe passages quoted from their paper, of course, the tm superscripts do not appear. refere nces angeletos, g.-m., laibson, d., repetto, a., t obacman, j. and weinberg, s. (2001). the hyperbolic consumption model: calibration ,simulation, and empirical evaluation , journal of economic perspectives, vol. 15 (3) (summer), pp. 4768. bayer, h. m. and glimcher, p . w. (2005). midbrain dopamine neurons encode a quan- titative reward prediction error signal , neur on,vol. 47 (1) (07 july), pp. 12941. benabou, r. and pyciak, m. (2002). dynamic inconsistency and self-control: a planner- doer interpretation , economics letters, vol. 77 (3) pp. 41924. benhabib, j. and bisin, a. (2005). modeling internal commitment mechanisms and self-control: a neuroeconomics approach to consumption-saving decisions , games and economic behavior, vol. 52 (2) (august), pp. 46092.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 375 bernheim, b. d. and rangel, a. (forthcoming). behavioral public economics: welfare and policy analysis with fallible decision-makers , in (p . diamond and h. vartiainen,ed.), economic institutions and behavioral economics, princeton: princeton university press. bhatt, m. and camerer, c. f. (2005). self-referential thinking and equilibrium as states of mind in games: fmri evidence , games and economic behavior, vol. 52 (2) (august), pp. 424459. brocas, i. and carrillo, j. (2005). the brain as a hierarchical organization , university of southern california. brown, a. l., camerer, c. f. and chua, z. e. (2006). learning and visceral temptation in dynamic savings experiments , caltech. bruni, l. and sugden, r. (2007). the road not taken: two debates on economics and psychology , economic journal ,vol. 117(516), pp. 14673. busino, g. (1964). note bibliographique sur le cours , in (v . pareto, ed.), epstolario, pp. 116572, rome: accademia nazionale dei lincei. camerer, c. f. (2007). behavioral economics, in (r. blundell, w. newey and t. persson, eds.), advances in economics and econometrics: theory and applications, ninth world congress, cambridge: cambridge univesity press. camerer, c. f., ho, t. h. and chong, j. k. (2004). a cognitive hierarchy model of games , quarterly journal of economics, vol. 119 (3) (august), pp. 86198. chen, m. k., lakshminarayanan, v . and santos, l. (2006). how basic are behavioral biases? evidence from capuchin-monkey trading behavior , journal of political econ- omy, vol. 114 pp. 51737. chong, j.-k., camerer, c. f. and ho, t. h. (forthcoming). a learning-based model of repeated games with incomplete information games and economic behav ior. chorvat, t. r. and mccabe, k. (2005). neuroeconomics and rationality , chicago-kent law review, vol. 80 (3) (august), pp. 123555. colander, d. (2005). neuroeconomics, the hedonimeter, and utility: some historical links , middlebury college. conover, k. and shizgal, p . (2005). employing labor supply theory to measure the reward value of electrical brain stimulation , games and economic behavior, vol. 52 (2), pp. 283304. deaner, r. o., khera, a. v . and platt, m. l. (2005). monkeys pay per view: adaptive valuation of social images by rhesus macaques , current biology, vol. 15 (29 march 2005) pp. 5438. della vigna, s. and paserman, m. d. (2005). job search and impatience , journal of labor economics, vol. 23 (3) (july), pp. 52788. friedman, m. (1953). the methodology of positive economics, chicago: chicago univer- sity press. fudenberg, d. and levine, d. (forthcoming). a dual self model of impulse control , american economic review. glimcher, p . w., dorris, m. c. and bayer, h. m. (2005). physiological utility theory and the neuroeconomics of choice , games and economic behavior, vol. 52 (2) (august), pp. 21356. gul, f. and pesendorfer, w. (2001). t emptation and self-control , econometrica, vol. 69 (6) (november), pp. 140335.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 376 colin f. camerer gul, f. and pesendorfer, w. (2005). the case for mindless economies , princeton uni- versity, november. hsu, m., bhatt, m., adolphs, r., tranel, d. and camerer, c. f. (2005). neural systems responding to degrees of uncertainty in human decision-making , science, vol. 310 (5754) (9 december), pp. 16803. hsu, m., zhao, c. and camerer, c. f. (2006). nonlinear probability weighting in the brain , caltech. huettel, s. a., stowe, c. j., gordon, e. m., warner, b. t. and platt, m. l. (2006). neural signatures of economic preferences for risk and ambiguity , neur on,vol. 49 (5) (2 march2006), pp. 76575. jevons, w. (1871). the theory of political economy. london: macmillan and company. kagel, j., battalio, r. c. and green, l. (1995). economic choice theory: an experimental analysis of animal behavior, cambridge: cambridge university press. kahneman, d. (2003). a psychological perspective on economics , american economic review, vol. 93 (2) (may), pp. 1628. kahneman, d. and tversky, a. (1979). prospect theory analysis of decision under risk , econometrica, vol. 47 (2) (march), pp. 26391. kosfeld, m., heinrichs, m., zak, p . j., fischbacher, u. and fehr, e. (2005). oxytocin increases trust in humans , nature, vol. 435 (7042) (2 june), pp. 6736. knoch, d., pascual-leone, a., meyer, k., treyer, v . and fehr, e. (2006). diminishing reciprocal fairness by disrupting the right prefrontal cortex , science express vol. 314 (5800), pp. 82932. doi:10.1126 science.1129156. laibson, d. (1997). golden eggs and hyperbolic discounting , the quarterly journal of economics, vol. 112 (2) (may), pp. 44377. lee, d., conroy, m. l., mcgreevy, b. p . and barraclough, d. j. (2004). reinforcement learning and decision making in monkeys during a competitive game , cognitive brain research, vol. 22 (1) (december), pp. 4558. loewenstein, g. and odonoghue, t. (2004). animal spirits: affective and deliberative processes in economic behavior , carnegie mellon university, mcclure, s. m., laibson, d. i., loewenstein, g. and cohen, j. d. (2004). separate neural systems value immediate and delayed monetary rewards , science, vol. 306 (5695) (15, october), pp. 5037. mullainathan, s. and thaler, r. (2000). behavioral economics: entry in international encyclopedia of the social and behavioral sciences, cambridge ma: massachusetts institute of t echnology. odonoghue, t. and rabin, m. (1999). doing it now or later , american economic review, vol. 89 (1) (march), pp. 10324. padoa-schioppa, c. and assad, j. a. (2006). neurons in the orbitofrontal cortex encode economic value , nature, vol. 441 (7090) (11 may), pp. 2236. platt, m. l. and glimcher, p . w. (1999). neural correlates of decision variables in parietal cortex , nature, vol. 400 (6741) pp. 2338. prelec, d. (1998). the probability weighting function , econometrica, vol. 66 (3) (may), pp. 497527. raiffa, h. (1961). risk, ambiguity, and the savage axioms: comment , quarterly journal ofeconomics, vol. 75 (4) (winter), pp. 6904. sanfey, a. g., loewenstein, g., cohen, j. d. and mcclure, s. m. (2006). neuroeconomics: cross-currents in research on decision , trends in cognitive sciences, forthcoming.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 377 sanfey, a. g., rilling, j. k., aronson, j. a., nystrom, l. e. and cohen, j. d. (2003). the neural basis of economic decision-making in the ultimatum game , science, vol. 300 (5626) (13 june), pp. 17558. shefrin, h. m. and thaler, r. h. (1988). the behavioral life-cycle hypothesis , economic inquiry, vol. 26 (4) (october), pp. 60943. stocker, a. a. and simoncelli, e. p . (2006). no ise characteristics and prior expectations in human visual speed perception , nature neur oscience vol. 9 (4) (april), pp. 57885. tanaka, t., camerer, c. f. and nguyen, q. (2006). poverty, politics, and preferences: experimental and survey data from vietnam , california institute of t echnology. wang, j. t.-y., spezio, m. and camerer, c. f. (2006). pinocchios pupil: using eyetracking and pupil dilation to understand truth-telling and deception in biased transmissiongames , caltech. wout, m. v . t., kahn, r. s., sanfey, a. g. and aleman, a. (2005). repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation over the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex affects strategicdecision-making , neur orepor, vol. 16 (16) (7 november), pp. 184952. zak, p . j. (2004). neuroeconomics , philosophical transactions of the royal society of london series b-biological sciences, vol. 359 (1451) (29 november 2004), pp. 173748. zak, p . j., kurzban, r. and matzner, w. t. (2005). oxytocin is associated with human trustworthiness , hormones and behavior vol. 48 (5) (december), pp. 5227.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 twenty the marke ta sac r e a t i v ep r o c e s s james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg james m. buchanan (1919 ) is advisory general director of the center for the study of public choice and harris university professor at george mason university. hereceived his ph.d. from the university of chicago, and he is best known for his workin political economy. he was awarded the nobel prize for economics in 1986 in recognition of his work analyzing economic and political decision making. viktor j. vanberg (1943 ) is professor of economics at george mason university and coeditor of the journal constitutional political economy. he received doctor ates from the t echnische universit at in berlin and the university of mannheim. his research focuses on the economics of institutions and on political economy. hadpyrrhus not fallen by a beldams hand in argos or julius caesar not been knifed to death? they are not to be thought away. time has branded them and fettered they are lodged in the room of the innite possibilities they have ousted. but can those havebeen possible, seeing that they never were? or, was that only possible which came topass? james joyce 1 1. intr oduction contributions in modern theoretical physics and chemistry on the behavior of nonlinear systems, exemplied by ilya prigogines work on the thermo- dynamics of open systems (prigogine and stengers, 1984 ), attract growing attention in economics (anderson, arrow, and pines, 1988 ;a r t h u r , 1990 ; baumol and benhabib, 1989 ;mirowski, 1990 ;radzicki, 1990). our purpose anearlier version of this essay was presented as a paper at a liberty fund conference on aninquiry into liberty and self-organizing systems, april 2629, 1990 ,r i or i c o ,a r izona. wereceived helpful comments on previous drafts from hartmut kliemt, karen vaughn, jack wiseman, and an anonymous referee. reprinted with the permission of cambridge university press from economics and philos- ophy ,vol. 7 (1991), pp. 16786. 378

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 379 here is to relate the new orientation in the natural sciences to a particular nonorthodox strand of thought within economics. all that is needed forthis purpose is some appreciation of the general thrust of the enterprise,which involves a shift of perspective from the determinism of conventionalphysics (which presumably inspired the neoclassical research program ineconomics) to the nonteleological open-endedness, creative, and nondeter-mined nature of evolutionary processes. prigog ine and stengers ( 1984 ,p.177) refer to this shift in perspective as a reconceptualization of the physical sciences, as a move from deterministic, reversible processes to stochastic and irreversible ones. the emphasis is shifted from equilibrium to nonequilibrium as a source of spontaneous self-organization (prigogine, 1985 ,p.108), to self-organizing processes in open systems far from thermodynamic equilibrium (prigogine, 1985 ,p.108). a characteristic feature of such systems is the presence of nonlinearities that can amplify small causes into large effects. at critical points (referred toas bifurcations), very small events can have signicant macroeffects, in thesense that they decide which part icular path among a number of equally possible paths the system will take, a fact that introduces a stochastic ele-ment and renders self-organizing processes in far-from-equilibrium condi-tions inherently undetermined. 2suchprocesses exhibit a mixture of neces- sity and chance that, as prigogine and stengers note ( 1984 ,pp.169ff.), produces a unique and irreversible history path along which the systemevolves. what is suggested here is a generalized perspective that brings into focus creativity and open-endedness in the ev olution of nonequilibrium systems, aperspective that has as its leitmotiv that the future is not given (pri- gogine, 1986 ,p.493), but is created in an unfolding evolutionary process. 3 authors like p . m. allen ( 1988 ,p .9 9 ) and j. s. wicken ( 1987 ,p .3 )s p e a k of a new evolutionary synthesis ,aunied view of the world which bridges the gap between the physical and the human sciences (allen, 1988 ,p.118). inhis discussion on the relevance of the new evolutionary synthesis for economic theory, allen stresses the concern with microscopic diversity as the critical feature. the cloudy, confused complexity of the real world ( 1988 , p.99) is the essential subject of an evolutionary approach in contrast to aperspective that looks for types and classes, and that views microscopic diversity and variation as negligible aberrations, to be averaged out throughclassication and aggregation. 4variability and individual diversity at the microscopic level drive evolutionary processes; they are the crucial ingre-dient to the creativity of these processes, of their potential to generatenovelty. as allen ( 1988 ,p.108) puts it: the uctuations, mutations and

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 380 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg apparently random movements which are naturally present in real complex systems constitute a sort of imaginative and creative force which willexplore around whatever exists at present. allen sees here the critical dif- ference between an evolutionary perspective and one that centers aroundthe notion of predetermined equilibrium states, the difference between thenew self-organization paradigm and a newtonian paradigm in which anyrepresentation of creative processes was entirely absent ( ibid. ,p.97). 5 asnoted, our purpose is, rst, to identify a body of criticism of orthodox equilibrium theory in economics that seems to correspond closely with thedevelopments noted in the natural sciences, and, second, to elaborate onthe implications of this (the radical subjectivist )criticism in some detail and, particularly, in its relation to its near neighbor, the entrepreneurialconceptualization of israel kirzner. 2. subjectivism, the growth of knowledge, and indeterminedness p.m. allens article is but one example of the growing number of com- ments on the apparent relevance of the new evolutionary synthesis for a reorientation of economic theory. the reasons that limit the applicability of equilibrium models, even in the traditional realm of physics and chemistry,apply af o r t ioritothe domain of economics. the equilibrium concept is associated with a world view that treats the future as implied in the present.inprinciple, future states could be predicted based on sufcient knowledge of the present; that is, if it were not for de facto limits on our knowledge of an immensely complex reality. by contrast, a core insight of the new paradigmis that nature is creative, that novelty and genuinely unpredictable outcomesare generated as the evolutionary process unfolds over time. the creativityargument has all the more force where concern is with social processes thatare driven by human choice and inventiveness. 6 one criticism of economic orthodoxy that has been advanced from a strict subjectivist position (a criticism that has, to our knowledge, been developed independently of the literature discussed above) has, in some respects, astrikingly similar thrust. 7itshould be said at the outset that there is no clearly delineated body of thought that would fall under the rubric of sub- jectivism. the term has been adopted by, and used as a label for, a number of perspectives in economics that agree in their broad criticism of the neoclas-sical general equilibrium framework, but that are by no means theoreticallyhomogeneous. with this proviso stated, we want to concentrate the discus-sion here on what is often referred to as radical subjectivism, a positionassociated primarily with the name of g. l. s. shackle ( 1979 )a sw e l la sw i t h

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 381 the work of such other authors as l. m. lachmann, j. wiseman, and s. c. littlechild. in sec. 3, we shall take a closer look at the modern austrianversion of subjectivism, represented by i. kirzners work on entrepreneur- ship, and we shall discuss the differences that kirzner sees between his ownposition and radical subjectivism. 8 atthe core of shackles attack on the neoclassical citadel (lachmann, 1976 ,p.54), and central to the radical subjectivist view in general, is the issue of what we can claim to know about the future in our efforts to under-stand the world of human affairs. the basic objection to neoclassical generalequilibrium theory is that it embodies assumptions about the knowabilityof the future that are entirely unfounded, not only in their most extremevariant, the assumption of perfect knowledge, but also in their softer vari-eties, such as assumptions about rational expectations or bayesian adaptiverationality. for radical subjectivism there is simply no way around the fun- damental fact that whatever happens in the social realm is dependent onhuman choices, choices that if they are choices could be different, and could, if they were different, have different effects. 9there can, therefore, be no given future, independent of the choices that will be made. instead,there are innumerable potential futures of which only one will emerge asthe choice-process unfolds. as shackle puts it, the content of time-to-comeis not merely unknown but nonexistent, and the notion of foreknowledgeof human affairs is vacuous ( 1983 ,p.33). or in j. wisemans terms: the essence of the radical subjectivist position is that the future is not simplyunknown, but is nonexistent or indeterminate at the point of decision (1989 ,p.230). 10 the recognition that in human social affairs the future is undetermined but created in the process of choice, does not imply that the future isbeyond conjecture (wiseman, 1990 ,p.104), nor does it ignore that indi- viduals have expectations about the future on which they base their action. the subjectivists understanding of the nature and role of such expectationsis, however, critically different from their interpretation in a neoclassicalframework. t o the subjectivist, expectations may be more or less reasonable(in the sense of being more or less defendable in the light of past experience),but they can, ultimately, not be more than conjectures about an undeter-mined and, therefore, unknowable future. t o the neoclassical economist, bycontrast, expectations are about a future that is, in principle, knowable ,e v e n if its knowability may be limited by imperfe ctions of the expecters. igno- rance of the future is essentially seen as a source of inefciency, as a problem that can, in principle, be remedied by learning. 11bycontrast, from a sub- jectivist position, such ignorance is simply an inescapable characteristic

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 382 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg of the human condition (wiseman, 1989 ,p.225). and the possibility of learning does not imply that through learning the future will become knowable, but only that experience will change behavior ( ibid. ,p.143).12 arguing on the same theme, shackle suggests that every person choosing among different courses of action can be seen to be making history, onhowever small a scale, in some sense other than mere passive obedience tothe play of all-pervasive causes ( 1983 ,p.28). every choice can be seen as the beginning of a sequel that will be partly the work of many peoples choices-to-come whose character ...the chooser of present action cannot know (ibid. ,pp.28ff.). 13our knowledge of the future is, from this perspective, not a deciency, a falling-short, a failure of search and study ( ibid. ,p.33). rather, it reects a fundamental fact of human existence, the imaginativeand originative source and nature of the choosables, and the endless prolif-erant creation of hypothetical sequels of choosable action ( ibid. ,p.36). it reects, in other words, the plurality of rival possibles (ibid. ,p.37). 14 the emphasis on choice as an originating force, the notion of the cre- ativeness of the human mind, and the outlook on history as an open-ended , evolving process, are intimately interconnected aspects of the same general theme that marks the critical difference between the subjectivist perspectiveand its neoclassical counterpart. it marks the difference between the non- teleological outlook on the human social realm that informs the subjectivist notion of an open-ended, creative-choice process, and the teleological thrust that underlies, if only implicitly, the neoclassical notion of an equilibriumsolution that is preordained by patterns of mineral resources, geography,population, consumer tastes and technological possibilities (arthur, 1990 , p.99). 15toshackle and other radical subjectivists, the whole general equi- librium concept is questionable when applied to a constantly changing socialworld that has no predeterminable telos, whether in the pompous sense of amarxian philosophy of history or in the more pedestrian sense of a con- ceptually denable equilibrium toward which the process of socioeconomic change could be predicted to gravitate. in a world in which creative human choice is a constant source of an unknowable future, the notion of a social equilibrium is, in j. wisemans words, a pseudo-concept ( 1989 ,p.214), one that can have only the most tenuous general meaning ( ibid. ,p.265). 16 another way of stating the subjectivist objection against the neoclassical equilibrium concept is by saying that the latter does not provide for an ade-quate account of real historical time. it does not take seriously the factthat, as l. m. lachmann puts it, time and knowle dgebelong together (1977 ,p.85), that time cannot pass without modifying knowledge ( ibid. , p.93). 17the common argument that simplifying assumptions allow

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 383 general equilibrium models to ignore the complexities of the time and knowledge problem is rejected by wiseman as unconvincing. the simpli-fying assumptions about human knowledge are, he argues, not legitimatesimplications but a gross perversion of the nature of the decision-problemfaced by people living in the real world ( 1989 ,p.140), a defect that cannot be remedied by sophisticated renements of the models that are based onsuch assumptions. 18 the contrast is between two critically different perspectives by which efforts to understand the world can be guided: (1) a teleological perspective, and (2) a nonteleological perspective. we argue that it is its uncompromis- ing nonteleological character that marks the critical difference between theunderstanding of the market process suggested by the subjectivist perspec-tive and various standard conceptions of the market that, if only in a verysubliminal fashion, have a teleological undertone. and, as an aside, we wanttosubmit that this residual teleology constitutes somewhat of a hidden common link between standard economic teaching on the self-organizing nature of markets and the blatant teleology of the socialist planning men-tality. 3. kirzners theory of entrepreneurship israel kirzners work, with its explicit emphasis on the entrepreneurial role in economic interaction, is of particular interest in the present contextbecause of kirzners ( 1985 ,pp.7ff.) claim that his own alertness theory of entrepreneurship keeps a balanced middle ground between two extremeviews, the neoclassical equilibrium view on the one side and shackles subjectivism on the other, or, in our terms, between a teleological and anonteleological concept of the market process. 19asweshall argue, how- ever, in spite of his emphasis on innovative entrepreneurial dynamics and in spite of his verbal recognition of the creative and open-ended nature of the market process, kirzners approach fails to escape the subliminal teleologyof the equilibrium framework. 20 there is, as littlechild ( 1979 )has pointed out in some detail, a disharmo- nious mixture in kirzners work, between a basic afnity to, and remainingdisagreements with, the radical subjectivist position. kirzner explicitly rec-ognizes the creative dynamics of the market process, and indeed, makes thisthe central theme of his work. he criticizes the neoclassical position forassigning norole...tothe creative entrepreneur ( 1985 ,p.13); he talks of the role of entrepreneurship in an open-ended, uncertain world ( ibid. , p.52), a world in which we nd scope for the unpredictable, the creative,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 384 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg the imaginative expression of the human mind ( ibid. ,p.58); and he talks of new products, new qualities of prod ucts, new methods of production, and new forms of organization that are endlessly generated in the course of the entrepreneurial process.21yet, such emphasis on creativity, imagi- nation, and novelty is combined with a theoretical perspective that locatedthe essence of entrepreneurship in the discovery of error (kirzner, 1985 , p.50), and the scope for entrepreneurship in the possibility of discovering error ( ibid. ,p.51), a combination that can hardly be called harmonious. discovery of error means, in the context of kirzners theory, such things as the discovery of erroneously low valuation ( ibid. ,p.50) of resources, the alertness to hitherto unperceived opportunities ( ibid. ,p.52), or the notic- ing of situations overlooked until now because of error ( ibid. ), phrases that all invite the same questions: if the essence of entrepreneurial discoveryis to provide protection or rescue from earlier or past error ( ibid. , p.53), what is then the benchmark or referenc e-base against which the fail- ure to do something can be judged to be an error? and how does thenotion of creativity square with such denition of entrepreneurial activity? arecreativity and imagination the same as discovery of errors? there is, in our view, a fundamental inconsistency in kirzners attempt tointegrate the innovativeness of entrepreneurial activity into an equilib- rium framework by modeling it as discovery of erroneously overlooked opportunities. 22the critical step in kirzners argument, the step that is intended to establish a middle ground between a teleological and a non-teleological understanding of the market process, is his extension of the notion of a divergence between different parts of the market ( 1985 ,p .6 2 ) from a cross-sectional to an intertemporal interpretation. 23according to the cross-sectional interpretation, the entrepreneur acts essentially as arbitrageur: bytaking advantage of hitherto unnoticed divergences between different parts in a present market, he helps to bring about greater consis-tency (kirzner, 1985 ,pp.61ff.). according to the intertemporal interpreta- tion, the entrepreneur takes advantage of yet unnoticed divergences betweentodays market and tomorrows market, thus helping to coordinate markets also across time ( ibid. ,p.62). 24 whatever may be said about the knowability of divergences in the cross- sectional interpretation, it should be obvious that the notion of intertem- poral divergences between markets at different points in time is inherently problematic. if, as we must assume, divergences between todays and tomor-rows markets are typically associated with differences between todays and tomorrows knowledge ,what does it mean to say that entrepreneurial alert- ness corrects the failure to realize divergences between present and future

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 385 markets? what sense does it make to describe todays failure to possess tomorrows knowledge as error ?25if,touse lachmanns phrase, timeand knowle dgebelong together, a comparison between present and future mar- kets cannot possibly be made in a sense that would make such terminology meaningful. the kind of comparison that can be made, at least conceptually,across contemporaneous markets cannot be made along the intertemporaldimension (kirzner, 1985 ,p.62). time is not simply another dimension, comparable to the spatial. different parts of a present market exist, they arepresent ,and differences in their characteristics can be discovered. future parts of a market simply do not exist; they are, by denition, not present.there are, at any point in time, many potential futures imaginable, based on more or less informed reections. y et, which future will come into existencewill depend on choices that are yet to be made. of course, human beings aim to be pre pared for the future, and they act on their expectations of what lies ahead. the subjectivist argument on the unknowability of the future iscertainly not meant as a recommendation to merchants not to anticipate the coming of winter in their storekeeping. y et, if, and to the extent that,human choices and their complex interactions shape the emerging future, the latter can be a matter of speculation, but not of foreknowledge. the supposition that the future is foreknowable clearly seems implied when, in talking about the problem of intertemporal entrepreneurial alert-ness, kirzner speaks of pictures of the future that may or may not corre-spond to the truth as it will be realized ( 1985 ,p.55), of mans efforts to overcome uncertainty by more accurate prescience ( ibid. ,p.58), of past failure to pierce correctly the fog of uncertainty ( ibid. ,p.53), and so forth. itis far from obvious how such insinuation of a preknowable future can be consistent with a genuine appreciation of the creativity of the humanmind. indeed, when arriving at this issue, kirzner simply retreats to the ex cathedra claim that his approach does encompass the two notions, without actually showing how this can be done. he emphasizes that intertemporal entrepreneurial alertness does not consist merely in seeing the unfoldingof the tapestry of the future in the sense of seeing a preordained ow ofevents ( 1985 ,p.56). indeed, he insists that such alertness must embrace the awareness of the ways in which the human agent can ...in fact create the future ( ibid. ). y et, as if the compatibility of the two arguments were obvious, he also insists that the function of market entrepreneurship inthe multiperiod context is nonetheless still that of discovery of errors in the sense explained above ( ibid. ). 26andheleaves undiscussed the issue of what one entrepreneurs creativity means for the truthfulness of anotherentrepreneurs picture of the future. 27

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 386 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg if,askirzners construction seems to suggest, todays failure to possess tomorrows knowledge qualies as error from which entrepreneurial alert- ness is to provide rescue, one could conclude that the ultimate benchmark or reference base for such judgment is an imagined world in which everything that humans may ever imagine, think, or know will be revealed.28judged against such a benchmark, every act, however imaginative and creative, canbe seen as a discovery of something that was already waiting to be found.andfailure to discover may be discussed in terms of error and overlooked opportunities. it seems questionable, however, whether the mental constructof such an imagined world is a helpful analytical guide when applied to thestudy of socioeconomic change. what might be misleadingly suggestive here is the analogy to the scientic discovery process. t o the extent that science is concerned with an objectivereality out there, our conjectural knowledge of this reality can be expected togrowover time, through a process of discovery. although we cannot know at present what we will know in the future, any future increase in knowledgecan, in some sense, be viewed as a nding of something that could, inprinciple, be currently discovered. there is something knowable out there,tobe discovered sooner or later. any such account of the discovery process in science is itself seriously challenged by the new conceptions advancedbyprigogine and others, because of its neglect of real time. but, even if, for the purpose of our discussion here, we should leave this issue aside,the analogous challenge advanced by the radical subjectivists to neoclassicalequilibrium economics applies with full force to the concept of the marketas a discovery process. entrepreneurial activity, in particular, is not to bemodelled as discovery of that which is out there. such activity, by contrast,creates areality that will be different subsequent on differing choices. hence, the reality of the future must be shaped by choices yet to be made, and thisreality has no existence independent of these choices. with regard to a yet tobe created reality, it is surely confusing to consider its emergence in terms of the discovery of overlooked opportunities. 29 4. conceptions and misconceptions of the market the essential characteristic of the ra dical subjectivist position that marks its critical departure from a neoclassical framework is, at the same time, thefeature that it shares with the new evolutionary synthesis discussed at thebeginning of this article: its conception of a world in which time plays avital role (littlechild, 1979 ,p.38), of history as an open-ended evolving process, and of a future that is not predetermined, merely waiting to be

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 387 revealed, but that is continuously originated bythe pattern and sequence of human choice ( ibid. ). such a conception has clear implications for the theory of the market that set it apart from various theoretical constructs that have been used to explain or to illustrate the adaptive nature of the marketprocess. if the emphasis on the creativity of human choice is taken seri-ously, it is not only the standard neoclassical equilibrium notion that seemsquestionable, but also less orthodox conceptions of the market process,including kirzners more subliminally teleological perspective on marketsand entrepreneurship. by stating this we certainly do not want to suggestthat radical subjectivism exists as a w ell-specied theoretical paradigm ready for adoption it clearly is not. what we want to suggest, however, is that the creativity of human choice poses a problem that any effectivesocioeconomic theory cannot evade. the critical shift in perspective may be further illustrated by reference tothree separate understandings of the spontaneous order of the market that have been advanced by scholars who have been generally supportiveof market organization of the economy, no one of whom would ever havereferred to the market as an analogue computer for the computation of equilibrium prices. 1. one of us (buchanan) learned basic price theory at the university of chicago in the 1940s, when all students, undergraduate and graduate, wererequired to master the syllabus written by henry simons. 30this syllabus contained three well-known rent problems that were designed to provide an understanding of how a competitive economy allocates scarce resourcesamong uses. and, as a test of the efcacy of competitive adjustment, onetask given to the students was that of comparing the total product of theeconomy in competitive equilibrium with that which might be achievedunder allocation by a benevolent and omniscient planner. 2. in a deservedly famous article, the logic of liberty, michael polanyi introduced the metaphor of a sack of potatoes that need only to be shaken toinsure minimization of volume to demonstrate how localized, decentralizedadjustment, akin to that which is characteristic of market organization,worksbetter than centralized adjustment. 31 3. in a monograph-length essay devoted to an explication of the sponta- neous order of the market, norman barry ( 1982 )stated that the results of a market appear to be a product of some omniscient, designing mind.32 ineach of these illustrative examples, there is revealed, at least by infer- ence, an understanding of the spontaneous ordering properties of a marketprocess that is sharply different from the understanding held by the radicalsubjectivists. in each example, the efcacy of market adjustment is measured

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 388 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg teleologically in terms of the relative achievement of some predened goal or objective. in simons problems, the objective is, simply, economic product, which is wheat in his one-good economy. in polanyis case, the objective isexplicitly stated to be minimization of volume. in barrys essay, the argument is more sophisticated, but any conceptualization of an omniscient, design-ing mind must imply some well-dened objective that exists independentlyfrom the separate participants own creative choices. ifthe efcacy of market organization, is, as insinuated in the above exam- ples, evaluated teleologically, in terms of its capacity to approach an inde-pendently (that is, independent of the choice of process itself) determinablestate, then there remains only an ambiguous discourse over comparativeperformance as between such an organization and centralized economicplanning. even if simons, polanyi, and barry, along with others, may havesucceeded in demonstrating that decentralized arrangements are superior inachieving some objectively identiable goal, their conceptualization of themarket process forces them into a line of comparative defense that a radicalsubjectivist understanding of the market would have rendered unnecessaryfrom the outset. if the market is genuinely perceived as an open-ended,nondetermined evolutionary process in which the essential driving force ishuman choice, any insinuation, however subtle, of a telos toward which the process can be predicted to move must be inherently misleading. thereis, in our view, no systematically sustainable middle ground between a tele-ological and a nonteleological perspective. and all conceptualizations ofthe market process that suppose, whether explicitly or implicitly, a some-thing toward which the process is moving are, by this very fact, teleological , whether the something is specied as an equilibrium or otherwise. thisapplies to the notion of a mechanical equilibrium as implied in the standardtextbook models of intersecting demand and supply curves, as well as to the thermodynamic equilibrium concept that is implied where the marketprocess is interpreted in terms of exhaustion of potential gains from trade.anditalso applies to images of the market that are intended to capture the constant change in the equilibrium-telos, such as k. bouldings image of the dog chasing a cat (littlechild, 1986 ,p.32). itshould be noted that to question the appropriateness of teleological conceptions of the market is not the same as denying the apparent fact that the human participants in the catallaxy, the game of the market,reasonably adapt tothe circumstances that they confront and to changes that they expect to occur. the predicti vepotential of microeconomic theory lies in the uniformity of such adaptive response among persons. but suchadaptive behavior does not imply that the overall process is moving toward

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 389 some determined goal, whether conceived as a predetermined equilibrium or as a moving cat. the game described by the market may be misun-derstood if interpreted in a teleological mind-set. the market economy, as an aggregation ,neither maximizes nor minimizes anything. it simply allows participants to pursue that which they value, subject to the preferences andendowments of others, and within the constraints of general rules of thegame that allow, and provide incentives for, individuals to try out newways of doing things. there simply is no external, independently denedobjective against which the results of market processes can be evaluated. wemay illustrate the nonteleological perspective on market interaction by dropping the familiar presupposition that potential traders initially possess quantities of well-dened marketab le goods. assume that no goods exist, and that persons are described by certain talents, capacities, and skills thatenable them to produce consumable goods from nature. assume that therules of the game allow persons to claim enforceable rights to the shares in natural endowments and to their own capacities and skills. in this model,trade will take place when persons recognize that their well-being can be enhanced by producing andexchanging rather than producing for their own consumption only. but the chain of choices is extended, and, also, there is an added requirement that any participant exercise imagination in choosing to specialize in production with the ultimate purpose of achieving an increasein well-being through exchange. think of the choice calculus of a person in this setting. what can i produce that will prove of exchange value to others? response to this question allowsthe participant not only to select among a preexisting set of goods, but,also and importantly, to create new goods that are expected to be of poten- tial exchangeable value. once the creative-inventive-imaginative element inchoice is introduced into the game here, then any idealized omniscience on the part of a planner who might attempt to duplicate the market result wouldbecome patently absurd. individuals would use their own imagination, theirownassessment of the potential evaluations of others, in producing goods wholly divorced from their own consumption, goods that are anticipated toyield values when put on the market, values that, as income to the produc- ers, can be used to purchase goods from others in the nexus. this seeking tosatisfy others through producing marketable value as an indirect means ofproducing value for themselves this characteristic behavioral element in amarket order was central to adam smiths insight. and it is this feature thatallows us to compare the performance of market organization with alterna-tive social arrangements, even in the absence of an independently existingscalar. markets tend to satisfy the preferences of persons, regardless of what

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 390 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg their preferences might be, and even when we acknowledge that preferences emerge only within the process of choice itself. the market conceived as a game without goods also suggests the ten- uousness of the whole notion of equilibrium, dened as the exhaustion ofgains from trade, which looms so important in the alternative teleologicalperspective. in the production and exchange of preexisting and well-denedgoods, it is relatively easy to think of the game as having a denitive and naloutcome once the goods have been so allocated that no participant seeksout further trades. goods are, by denition, then allocated to their high-est valued uses. but the usefulness of this equilibrium notion becomes lessclear when we assume that there is no denite set of goods to be allocated.conceptually, it remains possible to freeze the imaginative elements in individual choice at some point and allow the production-exchange processtoworkitself out to an equilibrium, where no further gains from trade, and from imagination of new trading prospects ,arepossible. the articiality of such an equilibrium construction is apparent, however, since there seemsnothing in the mind that is even remotely analogous to the cessation ofexchange. there is no determinate limit to the potential of market value to be created as the process of human interaction proceeds. what has made, and continues to make, the equilibrium concept attractive even to economists who, like kirzner, are explicitly critical of the neoclassical orthodoxy is, it seems, its perceived capacity to readily capture the coordi-native properties of markets, and the suspicion that the radical subjectivistcritique may leave one incapable of systematically accounting for the order-liness of markets. even if such suspicion may have been invited by some ofthe radical subjectivists, the emerging new evolutionary synthesis suggests a theoretical perspective that allows the su bjectivist emphasis on the creativity of human choice, with all its implications, to be taken seriously, while, at thesame time, it offers nonteleological explanations for the adaptiveness andcoordinative properties that markets exhibit. 5. conclusion wehave suggested that a perceptual vision of the market as a creative process offers more insight and understanding than the alternative visions that elicitinterpretations of the market as a discovery process , 33or, more familiarly, as an allocative process. ineither of the latter alternatives, there is a telos imposed by the scientists own perception, a telos that is nonexistent inthe rst stance. and removal of the teleological inference from the way oflooking at economic interaction carries with it signicant implications for

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 391 any diagnosis of failure or success, diagnosis that is necessarily preliminary toany normative usage of scientic analysis. wemay illustrate the differing implications in application to the observed failure of the centrally planned economies of eastern europe and elsewhere.the neoclassical economist, trapped in the allocationist perception, tends tolocate the source of failure in the distorted incentive structure that causes persons to be confronted with choice alternatives that do not reect authen-tically derived evaluations. resources do not ow to their most highly valueduses because persons who make decisions about resource use do not ndit privately in their own interest to shift allocation in such fashion as toaccomplish this conceptually denable, and desirable, result. some of the modern austrian economists, and notably kirzner, add an important element to the neoclassical critique. they suggest that, even ifthe incentive problems could, somehow, be ignored or assumed corrected,there would still remain the epistemological or knowledge problem. onlyadecentralized market structure of economic interaction can exploit fully the knowledge of localized circumstances required to allow a denitionof the ultimate valuation that is placed on resource use. only the marketcan allow persons the effective liberty to discover the particular localizedeccentricities that give form to value. this extension of the neoclassicalemphasis on incentive structures is important and relevant to any overallassessment of the central planning model for an economy. wesuggest, however, that the critique, even as extended, falls short of capturing an essential element in any comparative assessment of the mar-ketand the planning alternatives. the teleological feature remains to be exorcised. in the neoclassical setting, even as extended by kirzner, an omni- scientand benevolent monolithic planner could secure the ideally dened result. omniscience would, of course, insure access to any and all knowledge; benevolence could be such as to match the objective function precisely withwhatever it is that individuals desire. but even the planner so idealized can-not create that which is not there and will not be there save through theexercise of the creative choices of individuals, who themselves have no idea in advance concerning the ideas that their own imaginations will yield. the fundamental misunderstandings of the theory of the market econ- omy that provided the analytical-intellectual foundations for socialism asaprinciple for socioeconomic organization are exposed by any one of the three interpretations contrasted here. the market as an allocative process,responding to the structure of incentives that confront choice makers; the market as a discovery process, utilizing localized information; or the marketas a creative process that exploits mans imaginative potential socialism

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 392 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg cannot, organizationally, be made equivalent to any one of these ideal- ized perceptions. but, the fatal conceit that was socialism, to use hayeksdescriptive term here, would have surely faced more difculty in achievingdominance as an idea if the creative spontaneity of the market process hadbeen more fully appreciated. notes 1.joyce, 1960 .p .3 0 . 2.prigogine and stengers: whenever we reach a bifurcation point, deterministic description breaks down. the type of uctuation present in the system will lead to the choice of the branch it will follow. crossing a bifurcation point is astochastic process, such as the tossing of a coin ( 1984 ,p.177). 3.prigogine: [w]e come to a world which is open, in which the past is present and cumulative, in which the present is there but the future is not. ...the future does not exist yet, the future is in construction, a construction which is going on in all existing activities ( 1985 ,p.117). 4.the critical importance of individual diversity and variation from an evo-lutionary perspective is similarly stressed by biologist e. mayr, who uses in this context the term population thinking: population thinkers stress theuniqueness of everything in the organic world. what is important for them isthe individual, not the type. ...there is no typical individual, and mean val- ues are abstractions. ...the differences between biological individuals are real, while the mean values which we may calculate in the comparison of groups ofindividuals (species, for example) are man-made inferences (mayr, 1982 ,p p . 46ff.). mayr contrasts population thinking with essentialist thinking: adop-tion of population thinking is intimately tied up with a rejection of essentialistthinking. variation is irrelevant and therefore uninteresting to the essentialist.varying characters are mere accidents, in the language of essentialism ( ibid. , p.487). 5.asp.allen points out, one has to realize that there is a critical difference between asking whether a system obeys the laws of physics, ...or whether its behavior can be predicted from a knowledge of those laws ( 1985 ,pp.268ff.). for nonlinear systems, allen argues, the rst can be the case without the second being possible,due to the mixture of deterministic and stochastic aspects of nonlinear systems(ibid. ,p.270). allens argument parallels k. r. poppers remark in the open univ erse: [c]ausality has to be distinguished from determinism, and our world of uniqueness is unlike kants noumenal world in space and, even moreimportant, in time; for i nd it crucially important to distinguish between thedetermined past and the open future (1982, p. 48). in reference to prigogines work,popper argues in the same treatise: we must not ...blind us to the fact that the universe that harbours life is creative in the best sense: creative in thesense in which the great poets, the great artists, the great musicians have beencreative, as well as the great mathematicians, the great scientists, and the greatinventors ( ibid. ,p.174). 6.prigogine: clearly, a social system is by denition a nonlinear one, as interac- tions between the members of the society may have a catalytic effect. at each

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 393 moment uctuations are generated, which may be damped or amplied by society. an excellent example of a huge amplication ...is the acquisition of knowledge. ...instead of seeing human systems in terms of equilibrium or as amechanism, we see a creative world of imperfect information and shifting values, in which different futures can be envisaged ( 1986 ,p.503). 7.this similarity has been explicitly noted by fehl ( 1986 ); see also witt ( 1985 ). 8.there are other versions of economic subjectivism that can be distinguishedfrom both its radical and austrian variety, in particular, the opportunitycosts approach that has been systematically stated by one of the present authors (buchanan, 1969 ,1987 ). this version, as well as others that could be identied, will, however, not be discussed as such in the present article. 9.allen: the response to this question of choice, which makes modelling andpredicting difcult, can be of two kinds. either we can suppose that choice is anillusion and that the mechanical analogy is in fact legitimate, or we must ndsome new scientic paradigm in which choice really exists ( 1985 ,p.269). 10.littlechild stresses that same point when he summarizes the radical subjectivstview as implying that the as-yet-undetermined actions of other agents make for the essential open-endedness of creativity ( 1986 ,p.31) in human affairs, that the future is not so much unknown as it is nonexistent or indeterminedat the time of decision ( ibid. ,p.29). 11.wiseman: mainstream economics deals with unknowability by assuming it away.inthe simple model, this is done by assuming perfect knowledge of the future. ...the more sophisticated models assume knowledge of the pos- sible number of future states of the world. ...they assume that someone has a knowledge of the future that no one can possibly have ( 1990 ,p.103). see also wiseman ( 1989 ,p.159). 12.wiseman: the future has not yet happened. about it, men can have only opin- ions,related to past experience (learning). since men can (must) choose how toact, their chosen acts, together with the evolution of the physical world, are continuously creating the emerging future. if this is so (as it must be), then the future cannot be known now (that is, in the continuous present) ( 1989 , p.268). 13.asasummary of shackles position, littlechild states, choice ...represents an origin, a beginning. ...[i]t does have a sequel. it makes a difference to what comes after. this sequel cannot be foreknown, because subsequent events will depend partly upon other such choices yet to be made ( 1979 ,p.33). 14.shackle: [i]f we had all the data there are or could be about the present ,w emight still not be able to infer what the sequel of any action now chosen would be. ...if history, past and to come, is all one book already written at the beginning of time,what is choice? ...butifchoice is fertile, effective, truly inceptive ,then there can be no foreknowledge. history-to-come, in that case, is not only unknown butnot yet existent (1981 ,p.60). 15.weuse the term teleological here in a more general sense than that of an explanation in terms of intended ends or purposeful design. we classify as teleological all theoretical perspectives that explain processes in terms of some predeterminable end point toward which they are supposed to move, rather thanin terms of explicitly specied forces and principles that actually drive them.itis in this sense that we classify as teleological an equilibrium theory that

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 394 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg describes economic processes in terms of where they are going, namely, their end-point equilibria, but does not provide an explicit explanatory account ofthe dynamics of these processes themselves. 16.littlechild: [f]or g. l. s. shackle, the relevance of the whole concept (of generalequilibrium) is in question. every act of choice embodies the choosers creativeimagination of the future. the market therefore follows a kaleidic process,with moments of order interspersed with disintegration into a new pattern. the economy is changing and developing, but in no sense does it have a single goal(1983 ,pp.48ff.). 17.lachmann: the impossibility of prediction in economics follows from the factthat economic change is linked to change in knowledge, and future knowledgecannot be gained before its time. knowledge is generated by spontaneous actsof the mind ( 1977 ,p.90). 18.wiseman: but if what is assumed away is the essence of the problem, then greater complexity will generate not greater insights but more sophisticated confusion ( 1989 ,p.227). 19.kirzner: i claim, indeed, that the alertness view of entrepreneurship enables us to have the best of both worlds: we canincorporate entrepreneurship into the analysis without surrendering the heart of microeconomic theory ( 1985 , p.11). stated differently, kirzner claims to avoid the neoclassical orthodoxys failure to account for the creative entrepreneur ( ibid. ,p.13), without falling into the seductive trap offered by the opposite extreme ( ibid. ), that is, by the radical subjectivist position. 20.g. p . odriscolls and m. j. rizzos exposition of a modern austrian-subjectivisteconomics is, in a similar way, characterized by a tension between the accep-tance of basic tenets of radical subjectivism and the attempt to maintain anappropriately revised idea of equilibrium ( 1985 ,p.79). 21.kirzner: in the course of this entrepreneurial process, new products may be introduced, new qualities of existing products may be developed, new methodsof production may be ventured, new forms of industrial organization, nancing,marketing, or tackling risk may be developed. all the ceaseless churning andagitation of the market is to be understood as the consequence of the never-ending discovery process of which the market consists ( 1985 ,pp.30ff.). 22.kirzner: i postulate a continuous discovery process an entrepreneurial discov- ery process that in the absence of external changes in underlying conditions,fuels a tendency toward equilibrium ( 1985 ,p.12). 23.kirzner: what market entrepreneurship accomplishes is a tendency for trans- actions in different parts of the market (including the market at different dates)tobecome coordinated ( 1985 ,p.64). 24.kirzners crucial argument, in this context, is worth quoting at some length: when we introduce the passage of time, the dimensions along which mutual ignorance may develop are multiplied. market participants in one part of todaysmarket may not only be imperfectly aware of the transactions available in anotherpart of the market; they also may be imperfectly aware of the transactions thatwill be available in next years market. absence of consistency between parts of todays market is seen as a special case of a more general notion of inconsistency that includes also inconsistency between todays transactions and those to be

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 395 transacted next year. ...itis still the case, as noted, that the entrepreneurial function is that of bringing about a tendency for transactions in different parts of the market (conceived broadly now as including transactions entered intoat different times) to be made in greater mutual consistency. but whereas inthe case of entrepreneurship in the single-period market (that is, the case ofthe entrepreneur as arbitrageur) entrepreneurial alertness meant alertness topresent facts, in the case of multiperio dentrepreneurship alertness must mean alertness to the future ( 1985 ,pp.62ff.). 25.awell-known classical statement of the argument that we simply cannot antici- pate future knowledge and, therefore, cannot predict future human choices thatwill be affected by such future knowledge, can be found in k. r. poppers preface tohisthe poverty of historicism (1957 ). 26.the same kind of tension between kirzners chosen theoretical framework andhis attempt to incorporate the notion of entrepreneurial inventiveness in thecreation of new products and new ways of doing things is also visible in hismore recent discussion on the subject (kirzner, 1989 ,pp.84ff.). in her review of this book, k. vaughn comments on kirzners attempts to account for thecreative aspects of entrepreneur ship while retaining his earlier language: it has become obvious to this reviewer that the old language no longer ts his newtheoretical insights ( 1990 ,p.185). 27.kirzner indirectly refers to this issue without, however, discussing it: in partic- ular the futurity that entrepreneurship must confront introduces the possibilitythat the entrepreneur may, by his own creative actions, in fact construct the future as hewishes it to be. in the single-period case alertness can at best dis- coverhitherto overlooked current facts. in the multiperiod case entrepreneurial alertness must include the entrepreneurs perception of the way in which cre-ative and imaginative action may vital ly shape the kind of transactions that will be entered into in future market periods ( 1985 ,pp.63ff.). 28.and, by implication, one could argue that the equilibrium toward which intertemporal coordination as it is promoted by entrepreneurial discovery oferror tends to gravitate can only be some nal state of universal enlightenment,at the end of all times. support for such, a dmittedly exaggerated, interpretation may be seen in statements such as this: my view, therefore, sees initial marketignorance indeed as an inescapable feature of the human condition in a worldof change, but also as subject to continual erosion. ...(entrepreneurs) discover where existing decisions were in fact mistaken. here lies the source for any equilibrating tendencies that markets display (kirzner, 1985 ,p.13). 29.the discussion here, and elsewhere in this article, is related, at least indirectly,toacriticism of michael polanyi advanced by one of us in two related articles (buchanan, 1977 ,1985 ). polanyi conceptualized the scientic process as explo- ration or discovery, and he argued persuasively that decentralized organization of the scientic enterprise would insure more rapid advance in solving thejigsaw puzzle. from this conceptualization of the scientic process, polanyisupported, by analogy, the spontaneous or dering properties of decentralized market processes. buchanans criticism suggested that, even if the discovery-exploration metaphor remains applicable to the enterprise of the physical sciences, such

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 396 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg ametaphor is misleading when applied and extended to economic or political interaction among freely choosing individuals. 30.the simons syllabus was circulated only in mimeographed form. gordon tul- lock, himself a student of simons in the 1940s, edited and published a somewhatincomplete version in 1983 (tullock, 1983 ). 31.this article was the title essay in the volume the logic of liberty (polanyi, 1951 ). 32.foracommentary on barrys essay, see buchanan ( 1982 ). 33.although the thrust of his work clearly supports the vision of the market as acreative process, hayeks ( 1978 )illuminating discussion on competition as a discovery procedure is not entirely free of the ambiguities that the conceptofdiscovery tends to invoke when applied to the market process. potentially misleading are, in this regard, his comparison between the discovery processesin science and in the market ( ibid. ,p.181) and some of his comments on the problem of measuring market performance ( ibid. ,pp.185ff.). refere nces allen, peter m. 1985. t owards a new science of complex systems. in the science and praxis of complexity ,b ys .a i d ae ta l .t o k y o: the united nations university, pp. 26897. .1988. evolution, innovation and economics. in technical change and eco- nomic theory ,ed. g. dosi, c. freeman, r. nelson, g. silverberg, and l. soete. london: pinter publishers ltd., pp. 95119. anderson, philip w., kenneth j. arrow, and david pines (editors). 1988. the economy as an evolving complex system .new y ork: addison-wesley. arthur, w. brian. 1990. positive feedbacks in the economy. scientic american 262: 929. barry, norman. 1982. the tradition of spontaneous order. the literature of liberty 5:758. baumol, william, and stephen benhabib. 1989. chaos: signicance, mechanism, and economic applications. journal of economic issues 3:77106. buchanan, james m. 1969. cost and choice: an inquiry in economic theory. chicago: markham publishing company. .1977. politics and science. in freedom in constitutional contract ,b yj .m . buchanan. college station: t exas a m university press, pp. 6477. .1982. order dened in the process of its emergence. the literature of liberty 5:5. .1985. the potential for tyranny in politics as science. in liberty, mark etand state,byj.m.buchanan. new y ork: new y ork university press, pp. 4054. .1987. l. s. e. cost theory in retrospect. in economics: between predictive sci- ence and moral philosophy ,byj.m.buchanan. college station: t exas a m university press, pp. 14151. fehl, ulrich. 1986. spontaneous order and the subjectivity of expectations: a con- tribution to the lachman-odriscoll problem. in subjectivism, intelligibility, and economic understanding ,ed. i. m. kirzner. new y ork: new y ork university press, pp. 7286.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 397 hayek, friedrich a. 1978. competition as a discovery procedure. in newstudies in philosophy, politics, economics, and the history of ideas ,byf.a.hayek. chicago: the university of chicago press, pp. 17990. joyce, james. 1960. ulysses .l o n d o n: bodley head. kirzner, israel m. 1985. discovery and the capitalist process .chicago: the university of chicago press. .1989. discovery, capitalism, distributive justice .new y ork: basil blackwell. lachmann, ludwig, m. 1976. from mises to shackle: an essay on austrian economics and the kaleidic society. journal of economic literature 14:5462. .1977. professor shackle on the economic signicance of time. in capital, expectations, and the market process ,byl.m.lachmann. kansas city, mo: sheed andrews and mcmeel, pp. 8193. littlechild, stephen c. 1979. comment: radical subjectivism or radical subversion. intime, uncertainty and disequilibrium: exploration of austrian themes ,e d .m. rizzo. lexington, mass.: lexington books, pp. 3249. .1983. subjectivism and method in economics. in beyond positive economics , ed. j. wiseman. london: macmillan, pp. 3849. .1986. three types of market process. in economics as a process essays in the new institutional economics ,ed. richard n. langlois. cambridge: cambridge university press, pp. 2739. mayr,ernst. 1982. the growth of biological thought: diversity, evolution, and inheritance . cambridge, mass.: harvard university press. mirowski, philip. 1990. from mandelbrot to chaos in economic theory. southern economic journal 57:289307. odriscoll, gerald p ., and mario j. rizzo. 1985. the economics of time and ignorance . newyork: basil blackwell. polanyi, michael. 1951. the logic of liberty .chicago: the university of chicago press. popper, karl r. 1957. the poverty of historicism .boston: the beacon press. .1982. the open universe: an argument for indeterminism .t o t o wa, n.j.: rowan and littleeld. prigogine, ilya. 1985. new perspectives on complexity. in the science and praxis of complexity ,bys.aida et al., t okyo: the united nations university, pp. 10718. .1986. science, civilization and democracy. futures 18:493507. prigogine, ilya, and isabelle stengers. 1984. order out of chaos: mans new dialogue with nature .toronto: bantam books. radzicki, michael j. 1990. institutional dynamics, deterministic chaos, and self- organizing systems. journal of economic issues 24:57102. shackle, g. l. s. 1979. imagination and the nature of choice .edinburgh: edinburgh university press. .1981. comments. in subjectivist economics: the new austrian school ,b y a. h. shand. oxford: the pica press, pp. 5967. .1983. the bounds of unknowledge. in beyond positive economics ,e d . j.wiseman. london: macmillan, pp. 2837. tullock, gordon (editor). 1983. the simons syllabus ,b yh e n r yc a l v e r ts i m o n s . blacksburg: virginia polytechnic institute and state university.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 398 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg vaughn, karen i. 1990. prots, alertness and imagination (review of i. m. kirzners discovery, capitalism, and distributive justice). journal des economistes et des etudes humaines 1:1838. wicken, jeffrey s. 1987. evolution, thermodynamics, and information: extending the darwinian paradigm .oxford: oxford university press. wiseman, jack. 1989. cost, choice, and political economy .aldershot: edward elgar. .1990. principles of political economy: an outline proposal, illustrated by application to fiscal federalism. constitutional political economy 1:10127. witt, ulrich. 1985. coordination of individual economic activities as an evolving process of self-organization. economie appliqu ee37:56995.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 twenty-one what is the essence of institutional economics? geoffrey m. hodgson geoffrey m. hodgson (1946 ) is a research professor in business studies at the university of hertfordshire (uk), the editor-in-chief of the journal of institutional economics and was 2006 president of the association for evolutionary economics. heis the author of more than a dozen books and nearly two hundred scholarly articles. his research has focused on institutions, and he also has had a long-standinginterest in the history and methodology of institutional and evolutionary economics. the term institutional economics was announced by walton hamil- tonatam eeting of the american economic association in 1918 [hamilton 1919 ]. institutionalism dominated american economics, at least until the 1940s. listing a number of perceived attributes of this school, walton hamil- ton [ 1919 ,30911] claimed that institutional economics alone could unify economic science by showing how parts of the economic system related tothe whole. institutional economics was not dened in terms of any norma-tive stance. hamilton [ 1919 ,313] declared: it is not the place of economics topass judgments upon practical prop osals. however, its appeal as a the- ory was that allegedly it could be used as a basis for policy. according tohamilton [ 1919 ,31418], institutional economists recognized that: the proper subject-matter of economic theory is institutions. ...economic theory is con- cerned with matters of process. ...economic theory must be based upon an acceptable theory of human behavior ... this was expanded by the following observations: neo-classical economics ...neglected the inuence exercised over conduct by the scheme of institutions ...where it fails, institutionalism must strive for success ...it must discern in the variety of institutional situations impinging upon individuals the chief source of differences in the content of their behavior [1919, 318]. journal of economic issues ,vol. 34 (june 2000): 31729. reprinted by special permission of the copyright holder, the association for evolutionary economics. 399

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 400 geoffrey m. hodgson hamiltons description of institutionalism requires renement, but in its essentials it has endured the test of time. it can be rephrased and expanded in terms of the following ve propositions: 1. although institutional economists are keen to give their theories prac- tical relevance, institutionalism itself is not dened in terms of anypolicy proposals. 2. institutionalism makes extensive use of ideas and data from other disciplines such as psychology, sociology and anthropology in ordertodevelop a richer analysis of institutions and of human behavior. 3. institutions are the key elements of any economy, and thus a major task for economists is to study institutions and the processes of institutionalconservation, innovation and change. 4. the economy is an open and evolving system, situated in a natural environment, effected by technological changes, and embedded in abroader set of social, cultural, political, and power relationships. 5. the notion of individual agents as utility-maximising is regarded as inadequate or erroneous. institutionalism does not take the individ-ual as given. individuals are affected by their institutional and culturalsituations. hence individuals do not simply (intentionally or uninten-tionally) create institutions. through reconstitutive downward cau-sation [hodgson 2000 ]institutions affect individuals in fundamental ways. most of these points are direct elaborations of ideas from hamiltons [1919 ]text. however, regarding point (4), hamilton did not mention the words open sy stem. the phrase did not become widely used until after 1945. institutional economists such as k. william kapp [ 1968 ,8]and shigeto tsuru [ 1993 ,73] made the idea of the economy as an open system one of the dening characteristics of institutionalism. furthermore, hamilton didnot use the words evolving or evolutionary, although institutionalistshave become fond of these terms. point (1) may prove controversial, so it will be discussed in more detail below. it is perhaps the only point that any institutionalist may wish toremove from the list. certainly, some institutionalists will wish to add to or elaborate on the above ve points. the contention here is that they containthe hard core of the institutionalist tradition. ifurther assert that the single most important dening characteristic of the old institutionalism is proposition (5). among other schools, the newis distinguished from the old institutional economics principally in theseterms. other criteria do not demarcate the old institutionalism so readily. other schools of economic thought also express some concordance with

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 401 propositions (1) to (4). in contrast, proposition (5) is a guiding thread through the whole institutionalist tradition, from veblen to galbraith, andit is rarely acknowledged or developed elsewhere. i make this argumentbelow. let us rst look at proposition (1). subsequently, later sections ofthis essay will examine the common features of institutionalist theory anddiscuss some of the implications. isinstitutionalism dened by its policy pronouncements? inthe wider world, economics is often perceived and judged in terms of its policy prescriptions. economics claims to be a science, but policy issuesappear everywhere. even those who adhere to the notion of a value-freeeconomic science are often the very same people who are keen to pronouncepolicies. the institutional economist gunnar myrdal is well known for his empha- sis on the unavoidability of value judgments in social science. he wrote:valuations are present in our problems even if we pretend to expel them. the attempt to eradicate biases by trying to keep out the valuations them-selves is a hopeless and misguided venture [myrdal 1958 ,131]. but this does not mean that positive and normative statements are epistemolog-ically indistinguishable. for myrdal, facts and values were not the samething. values neither emerge automatically from facts nor is the choice ofvalue premises an arbitrary matter. in short, myrdal believed that valuesare always with us, but he did not make the mistake of treating values asequivalent to facts. in social science, statements about fact are always con-taminated with values. however, this does not mean that facts and valuesare equivalent. economic policies are very important. nevertheless, to convince and carry scientic authority, policies have to claim a theoretical basis. whether fromthe political right or left, a policy in the modern world has to invoke tosome theoretical justication. for reaso ns of both legitimization and logic, policy has to attempt to ground itself upon theory. furthermore, in ordertochange the world it is rst necessary to understand it. we must discern its underlying structures and forces before we can appraise the set of feasiblepossibilities for policy. itis not being suggested that the positive andthe normative can be entirely separated, at least in the social sciences. contrary to the positive economicsproposed in the neoclassical textbooks, it is impossible to separate com-pletely (positive) judgments of fact from (normative) judgments of value.statements of fact and value are typically intermixed. however, facts andvalues are not the same thing.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 402 geoffrey m. hodgson accepting that normative values are always with us does not mean that weshould always judge a theory primarily by its normative values. t o accept acomplex interrelationship between the positive and the normative does not mean that we abandon all aspects of the dist inction. statements attempting toexplain what isare confused with statements about what ought to be. yet knowing that many people in the world today are poor is not the same thingas saying that they should remain impoverished. while important, normative aspects of institutionalism are not very use- ful, nor sufciently precise, as dening criteria. one can nd a huge diversityof normative opinions within institutionalism. there are prominent exam-ples of fairly conservative institutionalists, such as arthur f. burns a friendof, and collaborator with, veblens student wesley mitchell who advisedrepublican president eisenhower in the 1950s. other institutionalists have socialist views. others are closer to the political center. policy outputs donot tell us very much about the overall nature of institutionalism. anyattempt to dene institutionalism in terms of policy outputs would runinto severe difculties. consider some possible policies. can institu- tionalism be dened, in part, in terms of a critique of market solutions toeconomic problems? manyinstitutionalists have criticized pro-market policies and have pro- posed various forms of economic intervention and planning. however, sotoohaveneoclassical economists. (neoclassical economics is dened as the type of economics invoking the standard textbook principles of rationality, maximization and equilibrium.) the problem of using a disposition towardsplanning and against markets to dene institutionalism would be that manyneoclassical economists would then be institutionalists. manyof the pioneers of neoclassical economic theory, including l eon walras, alfred marshall and philip wicksteed, were sympathetic to socialist or social-democratic ideas. by todays standards, some of them would beleftist radicals. walras, for instance, called himself a scientic socialist.histheoretical efforts in economics were motivated by a desire to demon- strate the economic advantages of price regulation and the public ownershipof natural monopolies, including land. marshall was concerned about theproblems of poverty in victorian britain, and was sympathetic to workerco-operatives. wicksteed also advo cated land nationalization and had sym- pathetic and personal links with the socialist and radical movement. several neoclassical economists have promoted radical, interventionist or socialist ideas. for example, irving fisher advocated substantial reation-ary measures during the great depression. another group of neoclassicaleconomists in the 1930sled by oskar langeused neoclassical economictools to argue for the superiority of a version of socialist planning.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 403 still later, leading neoclassical general equilibrium theorists kenneth arrowand frank hahn declared their sympathies for various interven- tionist and social-democratic economic policies. indeed, hahn and othershave attempted to justify the whole general equilibrium theoretical projectas an attempt to demonstrate the limits of the market mechanism. even more recently, alleged marxists such as jon elster and john roe- mer have explicitly embraced neoclassical tools of economic analysis, whileretaining leftist political credentials. true, there are many conservative and pro-market neoclassical economists. but neoclassical theory spans the con-ventional political spectrum from the extreme pro-planning left to the extreme pro-market right and thus is not denable in terms of the policy stances of its adherents. can institutionalism be dened, in part, in terms of a concern for greater equality and wealth? institutionalists do not have a monopoly on egalitariansentiments. and there is nothing in the core of neoclassical theory thatnecessarily leads us to inegalitarian conclusions. indeed, in the early part of the twentieth century, some economists saw neoclassical utility theory as supporting the policy prescription of incomeredistribution and greater equality. if individuals have a diminishing mar- ginal cardinal utility of income, then making incomes more equal may increase overall utility. however, these egalitarian policies did not nd ideo-logical favor among many neoclassical economists; they adopted the paretocriterion instead. a policy of taking from the rich and giving to the poor isnot pareto efcient. with this auxiliary assumption, the policy conclusionsof neoclassical welfare theory were changed from egalitarian to conserva-tive. the core presuppositions of neoclassical theory are in fact enormouslyexible in policy terms, depending upon which auxiliary assumptions arechosen. true, neoclassical theory is based on the idea of the given individual. and the ideology of political individualism sits quite comfortably upon it. but theassumption of given, utility-maximising individuals does not itself containany normative notion concerning the maximization of human freedom orthe minimization of the role of the state. it is one thing to say that theanalytical and the normative ideas may dovetail easily. but this does notnecessarily mean that one ows logically from the other. the fact that neoclassical theory can readily be packaged as either pro- market or anti-market is a symptom of its failure to provide an adequateexplanation of how markets work. it really concedes too much to neoclas- sical theory to suggest that it has an adequate theoretical foundation uponwhich to build any pro- (or anti-) market policy. neoclassical theory isessentially neither pro-market nor anti-market, because it has no adequate

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 404 geoffrey m. hodgson theory of markets at all. instead of associating it with markets, it would be more accurate to say that neoclassical theory was blind to real markets, and consequently to their virtues or vices. itis a serious mistake to dismiss mainstream economics on policy grounds, especially if we are concerned about policy. the mistake becomes more serious because it gives unwarranted credence to mainstream theoryas a means to generate well-grounded policies. the dismissal of a theorybecause of its alleged policies unwittingly bolsters the theory, by giving it muchmore credit, as a viable policy engine, than it deserves. furthermore, turning science into an ideology would disable any attempt toget better scientic explanations of social and economic outcomes we may wish to change. instead of persuading the scientic community ofthe causes of poverty or unemployment, we simply take up an ideologicalposture against it. we thereby abandon our role and duty as scientists. ourability to change and improve the world is diminished by some degree. anyalternative approach to the mainstream must rst stake its claim to be anidentiable approach to economics on the basis of its incisive analysis of what is ,rather than on its judgments of what ought to be. other criteria: interdisciplinarity, institutions, evolut ion, and open systems wenow consider three more of the dening characteristics of institutional- ism, as listed above, namely (2), (3) and (4). i argue that these are necessary,but far from sufcient, to dene institutionalism. consider the worthy attribute of interdisciplinarity. it is to its merit and enrichment that the old institutional economics draws upon other disci-plines such as anthropology, sociology, political science, and psychology. however,the nature of interdisciplinarity is difcult to pin down. neo- classical economics could also claim todraw on other disciplines. chicago economists gary becker and jack hirshleifer have asserted that their eco-nomics makes use of insights from biology. political science and sociologyhave been invaded by neoclassical approaches based on rational choice. theneoclassical economist can also be comfortable with some individualisticschools of thought in anthropology and psychology. furthermore, not all interdisciplinary endeavors are worthwhile. many disciplines contin individualist and other assumptions from which institu-tionalism would disassociate. a richer concept of the individual may also befound in anthropology or psychology, but we also nd impoverished andunsuitable ideas in these disciplines. institutionalists may be more thorough

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 405 and committed in their use of interdisciplinary resources, but interdisci- plinarity does not dene institutionalism. the old institutionalism emphasizes the importance of institutions in economic life, and attempts to understand their role and their evolution.especially in the 19401975 period, mainstream economists neglected thestudy of institutions. this is not the case today. with the arrival of the newinstitutional economics, mainstream economists have analyzed institutions,albeit as outcomes of decisions of rational, maximizing agents. the oldinstitutionalists, cannot claim to be the only school of economics to studyinstitutions. consider the idea that institutional economics is evolutionary. the nugget of truth here is that institutionalist writing is concerned with pro- cesses of structural transformation, emergence and change, which are often neglected in the mainstream literature. the problem, however, is that thewordevolutionary is extremely vague. it is now widely used, even by economists using neoclassical techniques. evolutionary game theory ishighly fashionable. even walras is described as an evolutionary economist[jolink 1996 ]. above all, evolutionary is now a voguish word that everyone seems keen to use. in precise terms it signies little or nothing. some take ittomean the use of biological analogies; other self-proclaimed evolutionary economists see no value in them. a narrower and more precise mean-ing of evolutionary that successfully demarcates institutionalism fromother approaches has not yet been elucidated or adopted [hodgson 1993b , 1999 ]. wecome to the institutionalist understanding of the economy as an open system. this is clearly an important insight of the old institutional eco-nomics, at least in the sense that it is recognized that the economy is part ofanatural environment, embodied in a system of social relations, and affected bytechnological and other changes. so far so good. the problem in using this as a demarcation criterion is that more substance needs to be given tothe notion of a system, and more explanation is required of the charac-teristic of it being open as opposed to closed. the idea of a system is an important but difcult concept. it connotes some idea of a closely structuredinteraction between interdependent components. but the boundary of thesystem may be fuzzy and difcult to establish. what is an open system? arguably, it is a system that is open to ows of matter, energy or information across its boundar yas y s t e mi na c t u a lo r potential interaction with its environment. is a national economy engagingin trade with other countries an open system? if so, then standard neoclassicalmacroeconomics has also embraced open systems. insofar as neoclassical

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 406 geoffrey m. hodgson economics deals with the environmental impact of economic activity, it might also be said to be dealing with an open system. anarrow version of the open system doctrine could rule out a signicant fraction of the institutionalist literature, whereas a wider version would alsoadmit much of neoclassical theory. the open system doctrine is not a precisesignier of the historical boundaries of institutionalism. until it receivesfurther renement, it is at best an important but imperfect criterion. insummary, the rst four characteristics, (1) to (4), are important but not sufcient to dene the old institutionalism. taken separately, or together inany combination, they are not enough. we must turn to the fth criterion. the institutionalized individual the rst task in this section is to identify a common theme that pervadesinstitutionalism, from the writings of veblen in the 1890s and after, togalbraith and the present day. a notion that the individual is not given,but can be reconstituted by institutions, pervades the tradition of old insti-tutionalism from its predecessors in the historical school to its modernsuccessors. for instance, veblen [ 1899 ,1901] wrote: the situation of today shapes the institutions of tomorrow through a selective, coercive process, by acting upon mens habitual view of things, and so altering or fortifying a point of view or a mental attitude handed down from the past. forveblen, this was a basis for a fundamental critique of mainstream economics. in 1909, he elaborated the argument more fully: the wants and desires, the end and the aim, the ways and the means, the amplitudeand drift of the individuals conduct are functions of an institutional variable thatis of a highly complex and wholly unstable character [veblen 1919 ,2423]. likewise, hamilton [ 1919 ,318] wrote of the most important defect of neoclassical economics: it neglected the inuence exercised over conduct bythe scheme of institutions under which one lives and must seek his good. later he continued the same theme, seeing each institution as imposing itspattern of conduct upon the activities of men in a manner consistent withthe notion that institutions possess causal powers above that of individualsalone. hamilton [ 1932 ,89] continued: institutions and human actions, complements and antitheses, are forever remaking each other in the endless drams of the social process. writing in 1899, commons [ 1965 ,3]sawinstitutions shaping each individual. commons [ 1934 ,734] likewise made it clear that the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 407 individual with whom we are dealing is the institutionalized mind. ... individuals ...meet each other ...prepared more or less by habit, induced bythe pressure of custom ... in an early article, mitchell [ 1910 ,203] made a similar point: social concepts are the core of social institutions. the latter are but prevalent habits of thought which have gained general acceptance as norms for guiding conduct.inthis form the social concepts attain a certain prescriptive authority over the individual. the daily use by all members of a social group unremittingly moldsthose individuals into common patterns without their knowledge, and occasionallyinterposes denite obstacles in the path of men who wish to act in original ways. inhis study of the evolution of money as an institution, mitchell [ 1937 , 371] emphasized how it changed human mentality and nature: now the money economy ...is in fact one of the most potent institutions in our whole culture. in sober truth it stamps its pattern upon wayward human nature, makes us all react in standard ways to the standard stimuli it offers, and affects ourveryideals of what is good, beautiful and true. likewise, clarence ayres [ 1944 ,84] explained: wants are not primary. they are not inborn physical mechanisms and they arecertainly not spiritual attributes. they are social habits. for every individual their point of origin is in the mores of his community; and even these traditions haveanatural history and are subject to modication in the general process of social change. the idea that individual tastes are not given, but are shaped by institu- tional circumstances and by particular inuences such as advertising, is a major theme in the writings of galbraith. for instance, in the new ind ustrial state,galbraith [ 1969 ,152] insisted that individual wants can be synthe- sized by advertising, catalysed by salesmanship, and shaped by the discreetmanipulations of the persuaders. the theme persists throughout his writ-ings. indeed, no author has brought these ideas to the attention of themodern reader more clearly and resolutely than galbraith. his analysis putsparticular emphasis on the effects of advertising on individual wants. this isone version of the core institutionalist story. more generally, institutionalistsrecognize the potential inuence of many institutions on individual habits, conceptio ns, and preferences. suchideas permeate and endure through institutionalism as a whole. institutionalism is distinguished from both mainstream economics and the new institutional economics precisely for the reason that it does notassume a given individual, with given purposes or preference functions.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 408 geoffrey m. hodgson instead of a bedrock of given individual, presumed by the mainstream and new institutional economics, the old institutionalism holds to the idea of interactive and partially malleable ag ents, mutually entwined in a web of partially durable and self-reinforcing institutions [hodgson 1988 ]. no other criterion demarcates so clearly the old institutional economics, on the onehand, from new institutional and mainstream economics on the other[hodgson 1993a ]. notethat the acceptance of the institutionalized individual does not immediately rule out the possibility that institutionalism and neoclassicaleconomics may be complementary. although veblen wished to purge eco-nomics of classical and neoclassical errors, other institutionalists searchedfor some complementarity between neoclassical and institutional eco-nomics. this group included leading institutionalists such as commons,mitchell, j. m. clark, paul douglas, and arthur f. burns. they all saw institu- tionalism as compatible with aspects of marshallian price theory. commons [1931 ]inparticular argued for some complementarity between the schools. this is a controversial position. but it shows that the complete exclusionof neoclassical economics from institutionalism would rule out commonsand others from the institutionalist canon. upward and downward causation having identied the most important common theme in old institutional- ism, it is necessary to enquire more deeply into its meaning. several versionsof this doctrine have surfaced over the years. it is also necessary to deal withsome potential misunderstandings and rebuttals. perhaps the most frequent attack on the notion that individual tastes and preferences are molded by circumstances is the criticism that this leads tosome kind of structural or cultural determinism. the individual, it is said,is made a puppet of social or cultural circumstances. admittedly, some old institutionalists have promoted such a deterministic view.whe na yr es [1961 ,175] wrote that there is no such thing as an individ- ual he was giving succor to such ideas [rutherford 1994 ,4041]. the danger is to see social order as a primarily top down process in which individ-uals are formed and cajoled by institutions, with a neglect of individualautonomy and agency. the ayresian version of institutionalism has beenso prominent in the post-1945 era that many commentators take it to berepresentative of institutionalism as a whole. however,such predominantly top down versions of the core institu- tionalist idea are not common to all institutionalists. this is clearly the case

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 409 with both veblen and commons. for instance, veblen [ 1919 ,243] argues that institutions are the outcome of individual behavior and habituation, as well as institutions affecting individuals: the growth and mutations of the institutional fabric are an outcome of the conduct of the individual members of the group, since it is out of the experience of theindividuals, through the habituation of individuals, that institutions arise; and it isin this same experience that these institutions act to direct and dene the aims andend of conduct. writing in 1899, commons [ 1965 ,68] wrote similarly of the dependence of institutions upon beliefs: social beliefs ...furnish the basis in the affections of each person which alone makes possible his responsiveness to the appeals of those with whom he mustcooperate. the institution in which he nds himself is both the cause and effect of his beliefs. ...common beliefs and desires are the vitalizing, active force within the institution. these statements show a valid recognition of both the dependence of institutions upon individuals and the molding of individuals by institutions. inthe writings of veblen and commons there is both upward and downward causation; individuals create and change institutions, just as institutionsmold and constrain individuals. institutionalism is not necessarily connedtothe top down cultural and institutional determinism with which it is sometimes associated. the great merit of the institutionalist idea that institutions shape individ- ual behavior is that it admits an enhanced concept of power into economicanalysis. power is not simply coercion. for steven lukes [ 1974 ], the overem- phasis on the coercive aspect of power ignores the way that it is often exercisedmore subtly and often without overt conict. he points out that supremepower is exercised by orchestrating the thoughts and desires of others. these subtle considerations are absent from mainstream economics. pref- erence functions are not subject to rec onstitutive downward causation. this is so even when an attempt is made to explain tastes. becker [ 1996 ]t ries toshow that cultural and other inuences can alter preferred outcomes byadding cultural and other factors to the arguments of these functions. however,culture does not alter the preference functions themselves. aproblem with this analysis is that it cannot deal with the genuine evo- lution and fundamental development of the individual. it attempts to makeall explanations of social phenomena reducible to the given individual, butin doing so it has to make the individual preference function immutable.the preference function is already there, ready to deal with unpredictable

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 410 geoffrey m. hodgson and unknowable circumstances. we already know essentially what is to be learned. learning typically takes place through and within social structures, and at least in this sense it is an important case of reconstitutive downwardcausation. neoclassical economics has great difculty accommodating thenotion of learning because the very idea of rational learning is problem-atic. it treats learning as the cumulative discovery of pre-existing blueprintinformation, as stimulus and response, or as the bayesian updating of sub-jective probability estimates in the light of incoming data. however, insteadof the mere input of facts to given individuals, learning is a developmen-tal and reconstitutive process. learning involves adaptation to changingcircumstances, and such adaptations mean the reconstitution of the indi-viduals involved. furthermore, institutions and cultures play a vital role in establishing the concepts and norms of the learning process [hodgson1988 ]. accordingly, the reconstitutive nature of learning is partly a matter of reconstitutive downward causation. t o put it bluntly: if we are to accept fully the notion of learning into social theory, then the concept of reconstitutivedownward causation must also be sanctioned. conclusion ithas been argued here that a concern for policy issues may be an attribute of institutional economics but it cannot be its dening characteristic. necessaryfeatures of institutionalism include the recognition of the importance ofinsights from other disciplines, of institutions and of open and evolvingsystems. nevertheless, the single most important characteristic of institutionalism is the idea that the individual is socially and institutionally constituted. the argument here is that all the old institutional economists, from veblen togalbraith, embrace the notion that the individual is molded by cultural orinstitutional circumstances. within institutionalism, there are many vari-ants of this view. however,the notion of reconstitutive downward causation is found neither in mainstream economics, nor in the new institutionalism. the tra-dition there is to take the individual as given. his or her preference function,even if it includes cultural variables as arguments [becker 1996 ], is imma- nently conceived. the emphasis there is on rational choice with givenpreferences in specied circumstances. welfare judgments are based on theassumption that the choice made by the individual is the best one in thecircumstances.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 411 the implications for abandoning this view and adopting the approach of the old institutionalism are enormous. conceptions of social power andlearning can be placed at the center of economic analysis. this means thatinstitutionalism is more able to address questions of structural change andeconomic development. it is more useful, for instance, in dealing with issuessuch as long-term economic development, the problems of less-developedeconomies, or the transformation processes in the former soviet bloc coun-tries. on the other hand, the analysis becomes much more complicated and less open to formal modelling. in normative terms, the individual isno longer taken as the best judge of his or her welfare. this opens up thedifcult question of the discernment and evaluation of human needs. this theoretical agenda including matters of power, learning and wel- fare is at the center of institutionalism, and it remains as vital and excitingas it was 100 years ago. refere nces ayres, clarence e. the theory of economic progress .1st ed. chapel hill, n.c.: university of north carolina press, 1944. .toward a reasonable society: the values of industrial civilization .austin: uni- versity of t exas press, 1961. becker, gary s. acco unting for tastes .cambridge, mass.: harvard university press, 1996. commons, john r. institutional economics. american economic review 21, no. 4 (december 1931): 64857. .institutional economics its place in political economy .new y ork: macmillan, 1934. .asociological view of sovereignty ,edited with an introduction by joseph dorf- man. new y ork: augustus kelley, 1965. galbraith, john kenneth. the new industrial state .harmondsworth: penguin, 1969. hamilton, walton h. the institutional approach to economic theory. american economic review 9, supplement (1919): 30918. . institution. in encyclopaedia of the social sciences ,vol. 8, edited by e. r. a. seligman and a. johnson, 8489. new y ork: macmillan, 1932. hodg son, geoffrey m. economics and institutions: a manifesto for a modern institutional economics .cambridge and philadelphia: polity press and university of pennsylvania press, 1988. .institutional economics: surveying the old and the new. metroeconomica 44, no. 1 (february 1993a): 128. .economics and evolution: bringing life back into economics. cambridge, u.k., and ann arbor, mich.: polity press and university of michigan press, 1993b. .evolution and institutions: on evolutionary economics and the evolution of economics. cheltenham: edward elgar, 1999. .structures and institutions: reections on institutionalism, structuration theory and critical realism. unpublished mimeo, university of hertfordshire, 2000.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 412 geoffrey m. hodgson jolink, albert. the evolutionist economics of l eon walras. london and new y ork: routledge, 1996. kapp, k. william. in defense of institutional economics. swedish journal of economics 70 (1968): 118. lukes, steven. power: a radical view .london: macmillan, 1974. mitchell, wesley c. the rationality of economic activity. part ii. journal of political economy 18, no. 3 (march 1910): 197216. .the backward art of spending money and other essays .n e wy o r k :m cgraw-hill, 1937. myrdal, gunnar. value in social theory .new y ork: harper, 1958. rutherford, malcolm h. institutions in economics: the old and the new institutionalism . cambridge: cambridge university press, 1994. tsuru, shigeto. institutional economics revisited .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1993. veblen, tho rstein b. the theory of the leisure class: an economic study in the evolution ofinstitutions .new y ork: macmillan, 1899. .the place of science in modem civilisation and other essays .n e wy o r k :h u e bsch, 1919.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 partfive new directions in economic methodology asexplained in the introduction to this volume, there has been a ood of recent and valuable work on economic methodology. part v provides a tiny selection of this work. in choosing these ve articles from hundredsof possibilities, i have attempted both to provide some sense of the rangeof contemporary works and to sample from some of the most inuentialmethodological approaches and authors. abrilliant writer, a distinguished economic historian, and a bold innova- tor,deirdre n. mccloskey in chapter 22challenges the pretense of method- ologists to guide practice in economics and argues that rhetoric (the studyof persuasion) is a more fruitful and enlightening guide. although committed to methodology, uskali m akis and t ony lawsons realist programs as sketched in chapters 23and 24call for drastic shifts in the way that methodology is done. both argue that methodologists shouldbe concerned with the ontological commitments of economists that iswith an exploration of what economists take to be real. however m akis and lawsons explorations take very different directions, with lawson arguingthat ontological inquiry leads to serious criticisms of mainstream economics. in c hapter 25,julie a. nelson explores gendered presuppositions within mainstream economics and ways in which sensitivity both to those pre-suppositions and to the specic economic circumstances of women couldimprove the discipline. in the last chapter in the volume, robert sugden offers a novel account of theoretical models and clues concerning why the-oretical models occupy such a dominating role within economics. myhope is that the essays in this section and indeed in the anthology as awhole will whet the readers appetite for more. 413

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 414

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 twenty-two the rhetoric of this economics deirdre n. mccloskey deirdre n. mccloskey (1942 ) was educated at harvard university, taught for many years at the university of chicago and the university of iowa, and is currently auic distinguished professor of economics, history, english, and communicationat the university of illinois at chicago. mccloskey was donald until 1995. shedescribes her transition in crossing: a memoir .inaddition to her long-standing research interests in economic history, in the 1980s mccloskey became interested in the ways in which economists persuade one another, and her work on the rhetoric ofeconomics poses a serious challenge to traditional views of economic methodology.the author of twenty books and three hundred articles, mccloskey has been anextremely inuential gure. inthe opening scene of the movie the graduate am r .m c g u i r ep u t sa n avuncular arm around the dustin hoffman character and says, i just want tosay one word to you. just one word. y es, sir? are you listening? y es, i am. plastics. [pause] exactly how do you mean it? theres a great futurein plastics. think about it. will you think about it? y es, i will. enoughsaid: thats a deal. so nowadays the avuncular word to the wise is rhetoric. theres a great future in rhetoric. furthermore, unlike plastics, rhetoric has also had a greatpast, the twenty centuries during which it was the educator of the young andthe theory of speech in the west as the classicist werner jaeger called it, therst humanism, the rhetorical paideia. the three and a half centuries ofmodernity since bacon and descartes have been in this respect an interlude.wearestill bemused, notes richard lanham the historian of rhetoric, by the 300 years of great newtonian simplication which made rhetoric a pages 3852 of knowledge and persuasion in economics bydeirdre n. mccloskey. copyright c circlecopyrt1994 by cambridge university press. reprinted with the permission of cambridge univer- sity press. near the end of the essay, three paragraphs concerning a no-longer current politicalissue were deleted with the authors permission. 415

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 416 deirdre n. mccloskey dirty word, but we are beginning to outgrow it (1993, ch. 2, p. 27; cf. lanham 1992). british empiricism and french rationalism have had a longand glorious run. the revival of rhetoric has been explicit since the 1960sin the study of literature and speech. but a sense of how to do things withwordshas spread now to other inquiries, to philosophers ruminating on speech acts or linguists on the pragmatics of conversation. rhetoric in the late twentieth century has had to be reinvented in igno- rance of its past. y et the mathematician who reects on the standard of proof in topology or the economist who notes that the federal reserve board is aspeaker with intent or the political scientist who wonders amidst his regres-sion equations if politics should after al lbereduced to public opinion polls (barry 1965; j. nelson 1983) are practicing rhetoric. when they reect ontheir reections they are practicing, to say just three words to you again are you listening? the rhetoric of inquiry. when kenneth arrow was asked by george feiwel what criteria he uses tojudge competing theories in economics he answered: persuasiveness. does it correspond to our understanding of the economic world? i think it foolish to say that we rely on hard empirical evidence completely. a veryimportant part of it is just our perception of the economic world. if you nd anew concept, the question is, does it illuminate your perception? do you feel youunderstand what is going on in everyday life? of course, whether it ts empiricaland other tests is also important. (feiwel 1987, p. 242) surprisingly the passage is quoted by mark blaug as demonstrating that arrowisalakatosian (blaug 1991, p. 505). its prose meaning, though, is that arrow, like us all, is a rhetorician. he seeks persuasion, through intro-spection, through a sense of the social world, and through fully identied best linear unbiased econometric tests, too. the very word rhetoric, though, makes it hard for moderns to under- stand what they are talking about. like anarchism taken to be bomb-throwing or pragmatism taken to be unprincipled horse trading, rhetoricis a noble word fallen on bad times. rhetoric has since the beginning been dened in two ways, as i have said, one narrow and the other broad. the narrow denition is platos, madepopular in the nineteenth century by the romantic elevation of sinceritytothe chief virtue. rhetoric in the platonic denition is cosmetic, hid- ing a disease under paint rather than providing a cure. journalists use thecosmetic denition in their news stories and philosophers use it in their seminars. when the newspapers want to speak of obscuring blather andthirty-second spots on ag burning they write senate campaign mired in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 417 rhetoric. the philosophy seminar uses the word rhetoric to characterize the meretricious ornament obscuring the clear and distinct idea. thus evenw.v.quine, in an untutored entry for rhetoric in his personal dictio- nary of philosophy, calls it the rallying point for advertisers, trial lawyers,politicians, and debating teams (quine 1987, p. 183), without noticing thateven in such a sneering and platonic denition it is the rallying point also for philosophers. inplatos language rhetoric is associated especially with democratic institutions, such as assemblies or law courts, disdained by men of taste.you attempt to refute me, says socrates in the gorgias, in a rhetorical fashion, as they understand refuting in the law courts ...butthis sort of refutation is quite useless for getting at the truth. or in the phaedrus, he who is to be a competent rhetorician need have nothing at all to do, they say,with truth in considering things which are just or good, or men who are so, whether by nature or by education. for in the courts, they say, nobody caresfor truth about these matters, but for what is convincing ( gorgias ,471e and phaedrus 272d). compare gorgias 473e-474a: polus, i am not one of your statesmen ...the many i dismiss (cf. 471e, 502e on rhetoric as mere attery); and phaedrus, 260a, 275e, 277e, 267a-b, 261c-d, 262c, among other places where plato expresses his contempt for law courts and democraticassemblies as against those who know. the attack on rhetoric has more thanalittle anti-democratic coloring. ifrhetoric is dened thus as ornament it is easily left to the goddamned english professors or advertising acks. the setting aside began with peterramus in the sixteenth century, who disastrously reafrmed the platonicseparation of mere ornament from deep philosophy. as lanham notes, ifyouseparate the discipline of discourse into essence and ornament, into philosophy and rhetoric, and make each a separate discipline, it makes themeasier to think about. thus begins modern inquirys long history of lookingfor its lost keys not where it lost them but under the lamppost, where theyare easier to nd (ch. 7, pp. 67). another professor of english has warnedagainst sneering at the mere rhetoric: we must ward off the sensationthat words are nothing but words when they are actually among our mostsubstantial collective realities (petrey 1990, p. 37). our politics, for example,is a set of speech acts and speeches about speech acts, and is easily corruptedbybad rhetoric. we are only men, wrote montaigne, and we only hold one to the other by our word. (i:9). the other, broad denition of rhetoric is aristotles, in the rhetoric, i. ii. 1(toquote the kennedy translation), an ability, in each [particular case], tosee the available means of persuasion. of course the greeks, ever talkers

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 418 deirdre n. mccloskey and ghters, distinguished sharply between persuasion ( peitho )and violence (bia), an opposition nely discussed by kirby (1990). their literature is lled with speeches of persuasion weighing against the violent alternative. king priam of troy, prostrate before achilles, pleads eloquently for the body of his son, linking in his nal words the instruments of persuasion and ofviolence: i put my lips to the hands of the man who has killed my children (homer, iliad xxiv, line 506). the athenians at the height of success in the peloponnesian war sneer at a great mass of words that nobody wouldbelieve, mere rhetoric. they tell the melians, their victims, that as a matterof realism in foreign policy compare the rhetoric of henry kissinger andthe 1960s movement to realism in international relations the standardof justice depends on the equality of power to compel (thucydides, v , 89).the athenians proceed to kill all the men and sell the women and childreninto slavery, an abandonment of sweet persuasion they live to regret. all that moves without violence, then, is persuasion, peitho, the realm of rhetoric, unforced agreement, mutually advantageous intellectual exchange. itwould therefore include logic and fact as much as metaphor and story. logic, as logicians have been making steadily clearer in the century past,is not an unargued realm. logic can be aristotelian, scholastic, rst-orderpredicate, deontic, modal, relevant, multivalued, informal, intensional,counterfactual, epistemic, paraconsistent, relevant entailment, fuzzy, and so on and so forth through the various ways that people can formalizewhat they are saying. the linguist and logician james d. mccawley saysthat only through arrogance or ignorance do logicians palm off any singlefull system of logic as unchallengeable (mccawley 1990, p. 378). likewisefact is not to be determined merely by kicking stones or knocking tables. that a fact is a fact relative only to a conceptual scheme is no longer con-troversial, if it ever was. kant knew it; so should we. studies of science over the past few decades have shown repeatedly that facts are constructed bywords. there is nothing shameful in this logic and fact of scientic rhetoric. as niels bohr said, it is wrong to think that the task of physics is to nd out how nature is. physics concerns what we can say about nature ...we ar e suspended in language ...the word reality is also a word, a word which we must learn to use correctly (moore 1966 [1985], p. 406; but not all people are gifted at every part of argument; bohr, gifted at metaphor, could notfollow the plots of his beloved movie westerns, and would bring someonealong to whisper explanations in his ear). and heisenberg: natural sci-ence does not simply describe and explain nature; it is part of the interplaybetween nature and ourselves: it describes nature as exposed to our method

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 419 of questioning (1959, quoted in berger 1985, p. 176). that is to say, appeals toexperimental nding are as much a part of a broad-church denition of rhetoric as are appeals to the good character of the speaker. mills logicof strict implication is as much rhetoric as is the anaphora of whitmanspoetry. wittgenstein says, uttering a word is like striking a note on thekeyboard of the imagination (1945 [1958], p. 4). in this denition a science as much as a literature has a rhetoric. when economists look at something, say childcare, they think of markets. childcare which to other people looks like a piece of social control, or a set of buildings, or a problem in social work looks to economistslike a stock certicate traded on the new y ork exchange. by this choice ofmetaphor they are driven to identify a demand curve, a supply curve, and aprice. if the economists are of the mainstream, neoclassical kind they will seerational behavior in such a market; if they are marxist or institutionalist or austrian economists they will see somewhat differently. but in any case the seeing will seem to them to make ordinary sense, to be the way things reallytruly a re. arhetorician, however, notes that the market is just a gure of speech. yetaserious rhetorician, or a serious philosopher of science, will not add the just, because metaphor is a serious gure of argument. noting themetaphors is not merely another way of saying that economics is approxi-mate and unperfected. economists believe that metaphor comes from thefuzzy, humanistic side of the modernist world. a model in economics comestobe called a metaphor, in this way of thinking, if the statement can be tested only approximately (thus david gordon 1991). but the inverse square law of gravitational attraction is also a metaphor; so is einsteinsgeneralization, it is well known that the romantics assigned metaphor tothe realm of art, distinguishing an imaginative from a scientic faculty,as though different organs of the brain. the literary critic francis mcgrathhas argued that the distinction cannot be sustained (mcgrath 1985). boyleslaw shares metaphor with shakespeares 73rd sonnet: metaphor, mcgrathargues, is as fundamental to science as to art. models are metaphors, that is all. so in other elds: the mechanistic, ... the organismic, the marketplace, the dramaturgical, and the rule-followingmetaphors have all played a signicant role in psychological research of thepast decades (gergen 1986, p. 146). the market is a commonplace, alocus communis, a topos aplace where economists work. the rhetoricians metaphor here is locational. in the rhetorical way of talking since the greeksthe metaphor of a conversation is a topos for the language game across the playing elds of economics (klamer and leonard 1993 explore metaphors in

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 420 deirdre n. mccloskey economics more thoroughly, with reference to the now-large philosophical literature; and see mccloskey 1985). the conversational gure of speech suggests the similarity argument: that the economic conversation shares many features with other conversa-tions differently placed. any scientic conversation has much in commonwith, say, poetic conversation, as is demonstrable in detail beyond rational patience. the linguist solomon marcus listed fully fty-two alleged differ-ences between scientic and poetic communication (rational vs. emotional;explicable vs. ineffable; and so forth), and after much thought rejected them all as crudities (marcus 1974). he noted that there is as much variationwithin scientic and poetic communication as between them. the attempts to distinguish the artistic and scientic uses of metaphor presume that the categories of european thought around 1860 cut the uni-verse at its joints. the english professor richard lanham argues at length that nothing but confusion has ever come from the effort to x the poetry-prose boundary (lanham 1974, p. 65). attempts to distinguish art andscience do not seem to work, though from the best workers. thomas kuhn,for example, noting truly that we have only begun to discover the bene-ts of seeing science and art as one (1977, p. 343), nonetheless attempts adistinction. he argues that beauty in science (a differential equation withstartlingly simple solutions, say) is an input into the solution of a technicalproblem, whereas in art the solution of a technical problem (contrappostoin representing a standing gure, say) is an input into the beauty. but at dif-ferent levels of the art and science different work will be done. an economicscientist will work like an artist at a technical problem to achieve beauty;but then the beauty at another level will work to solve a technical problem.one might stand better amazed, as a physicist famously did of mathematics,about the unreasonable effectiveness of aesthetic standards in science. thephysicist tullio regge remarked to primo levi, the chemist and writer, iliked the sentence in which you say that the periodic table is poetry, andbesides it even rhymes (levi and regge 1992, p. 9). levi responded, theexpression is paradoxical, but the rhymes are actually there ...todiscern or create a symmetry, put something in its proper place, is a mental adventurecommon to the poet and the scientist (pp. 910). the one distinction between art and science of which kuhn half per- suades me is that art continues to converse with dead artists. physicists,notoriously, do not work in the past of their discipline. and yet: biologistsare still conversing with darwin, economists with adam smith. even thismost persuasive demarcation seems fuzzy and useless. one can ask of thecleverest of demarcation criteria, so what? in many of the activities of artists

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 421 and scientists you can see and use the overlap. what is the corresponding usefulness of demarcating science from art? logic, for example, is by no means the sole preserve of calculators. the english metaphysical poets of the seventeenth century were addicted tological forms, forms that were viewed as gures of speech by writers stilleducated in rhetoric. john donnes song (1633) begins with a reductio ad absurdum (go and catch a falling star, get with child a mandrakes root ...andnd what wind serves to advance an honest mind), turns then to an inferential argument (ride ten thousand days and nights ...and swear no where lives a woman true and fair), and nishes with whatan economist would call an assessment of a low prior probability (if thoundst one, let me know; ...yetdonot; i would not go, though at next door we might meet. ...yetshe will be false, ere i come, to two or three). marvells t o his coy mistress (1681) is the type of an argumentative poem. the argument is of course economic: had we but world enough andtime, my lady, i could court you as your value warrants, to satiation; buttime is scarce, and life especially; the rate of time discount (as the modern economist would say) is therefore positive; and the optimal consumptionplan is therefore to seize the day. marvell makes his appeal relentlessly andsmirkingly: he plays with a convention of rational choice and mocks it,as language games have a tendency to do with themselves. (irony for thisreason is called by the literary critic kenneth burke the trope of tropes .) the economist plays no less within a convention when drawing on inference(n ten thousand days and nights) or time discount ( t deserts of vast eternity), or when making little jokes to other economists about islands in the labor market or how the data have been massaged. the atfootedamong economists and poets lack this sense of irony about arguments. theypen lines like the coefcient is signicant at the .00000001 level or i thinkthat i shall never see a poem lovely as a tree. similarity is not identity. economics may be like poetry in this or that important respect, but plainly it is not the same. at another level, the like-nesses between stocks and childcare will allow the topos of the markettowork,but there are differences, too, that will gure sometimes. at still another level, academic poets have different conversations from greeting-card poets. and all poets differ in other ways from economists, howeverpoetic the economists may be. economics, for example, is notpoetry just to the degree that a piece of economics invites what the critic louise rosenblatt called an efferentreading (from latin effero, take away) as against an aesthetic reading (1978, pp. 2528). that is, one expects to take away something useful from an

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 422 deirdre n. mccloskey article on the new jersey income-maintenance experiment. the article is not read for itself (though recall marcus experiment and take care: someeconomics is read for the aesthetic pleasure, and could hardly give any other).asoakeshott put it (1959 [1991], p. 525), poetic utterance ...is not the expression of an experience, it isthe experience and the only one there is in the voice of poetry. itis sometimes argued therefore that economics and other sciences, though using metaphors, use them in a different way from poets. thephilosopher of science cristina bicchieri, for example, in a penetrating com-ment on my poetics of economics, argues that a good literary metaphorshould be surprising and unexpected ...scientic metaphors, on the con- trary, are tob eo v e r u s e d (1988, p. 113, my italics; compare oakeshott 1959 [1991], p. 528: the poets metaphors have no settled value; they have onlythe value he succeeds in giving them). well, yes and no. the economist a. c. harberger tells the story of a cocktail party at his house in the early 1960s, when gary becker, a brilliant student at chicago, was working on the dissertation that became human capital: a theoretical and empirical analysis, with special reference to edu-cation (1964). the party was well along, but gary as usual was sober and serious, and always, always talking economics. he came up to harberger andremarked out of the blue, soft drink in hand, y ou know, al, children are just like consumer durables. itwas a poetic moment, unexpected certainly toharberger (who in fact was an expert on consumer durables, but had no idea that procreation might t the category). true, as bicchieri says, beckerintended the metaphor to be overused, which is to say, to become part ofthe dead metaphors of the eld; and it has. but at the moment of creation like a poem once alive that becomes a clich eitwas anything but dead. andonthe literary side bicchieri and other philosophers who want to give scientic metaphors a special cognitive goal quite separate from poetryare overstating the strangeness of poetry. they are adopting without real-izing it a romantic literary criticism that puts the poet outside the routinesof conversation, the poem being the spontaneous overow of powerfulfeeling, taking its origin from emotion recollected in tranquillity. but ofcourse poets, even wordsworth, in fact talk largely about poetry, quoting each others metaphors. the coin of poetic tradition is well worn. somegood poems contain clich es like the coin of poetic tradition is well worn. what makes the poem work as the activity of being delighted in the enter- tainment of its own contemplative images (oakeshott 1959 [1991], p. 527)is what is done with the clich es (like what i did just now with the clich e of worn coins, or in this sentence with the convention of not referring to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 423 ones own clich es in academic prose, or in this clause with that of not engag- ing in tiresome reexivity, or in the last clause with that of not disablingthe readers vexation by admitting that it is tiresome, and so forth). butgood science is like that, too. good science like good poetry can take utterlyroutine metaphors and, as harberger is fond of saying, make them sing. periods of classicism, in which a poet or scientist seeks originality within settled metaphors, are not non-poetic or non-scientic. think of alexanderpope or lo rd ke lvin. still, to be less provocative, take a conversation more obviously similar toeconomics, one which is wholly efferent (maybe), economic journalism. thinking about its metaphors and contrasting them to economics itselfstill proves useful. economic journalism is written sometimes by journalistswith no academic pretensions, such as leonard silk, robert samuelson, john greenwald, louis rukeyser, and david warsh, but also by academic economists gifted in this way, such as milton friedman, j. k. galbraith,and lester thurow, or academics-turned-journalists like peter passell. thecommon reader is liable to think that such writings are academic economics translated into plain english, in the style of popular science. without prejudice, they are not. (which is not to say that economic journalism iseasy or that it is inferior to seminar talk: anyone who could imitate the booksbythe nancial journalist who writes under the pseudonym adam smith, for example, would be justly rich; few academic economists are.) the journalistic conversation runs on particular dramatic conventions, hinging on evil, suspense, and individuality. william blundell, a featurewriter for the wall street journal, givesasthe major commandment for newspaper reporting: for petes sake, make it interesting. t ell me a story (blundell 1988, p. xii), and uses the old gag about the ideal readers digest piece to make the point: how i had carnal relations with a bear for thefbi and found god. in the storied talk that market people use to dignifytheir work a market is excited or depressed, overrun with bulls or bears,slit with cutthroat competition. how i had business relations with ibmfor the s.e.c. and found competitiveness. businesspeople are portrayedin a story by samuel smiles or louis rukeyser as pioneers whose courageand creativity extends the frontiers of what is economically possible; orthey are portrayed in a story from lincoln steffens or robert kuttner asthe tyrants who oppress the powerless. the story is just that: a piece inanewspaper. the black hat appears in it as a foreign country underselling our products or beating us in productivity. we and they are the heroes and villains, in pervasive sporting and military metaphors. personalizingimages are common, as in the talk of the street.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 424 deirdre n. mccloskey amasterful example is the zero-sum solution (1985), by lester thurow, a ne economist and dean of the business school at massachusetts institute oftechnology. the book is sporting. t o play a competitive game is not to be a winner every competitive game has its losers it is only to be given a chance to win ...free market battles can be lost as well as won, and the united states is losing them on world markets (thurow 1985, p. 59). one chapteris entitled constructing an efcient t eam. throughout there is talk aboutamerica competing , and beating the rest of the world with a world- class economy. a later book is called head to head. thurow complains that more people dont appreciate his favorite metaphor: for a societywhich loves team sports ...it is surprising that americans wont recognize the same reality in the far more important international economic game(1985, p. 107). note that my reality is your metaphor. in more aggressivemoods thurow slips from sweatpants into combat fatigues: american rmswill occasionally be defeated at home and will have no compensating foreign victories (thurow 1985, p. 105). foreign trade is viewed as the economic equivalent of war. three metaphors govern thurows story: this metaphor of the interna- tional zero sum game; a metaphor of the domestic problem; and ametaphor of we . wehave a domestic problem of productivity that leads to aloss in the international game. thurow has spent a long time interpreting the world with these linked metaphors. the we-problem-game metaphorsare not the usual ones in economics. anti-economists since the beginninghave favored the metaphor of exchange as a zero-sum game. but the subjectis the exchange of goods and services. if exchange is a game it might betterbe seen as one in which everyone wins, like aerobic dancing. no problem.trade in the mainstream economic view is not zero sum. t o be sure, from the factory oor it looks like zero sum, which gives thurows metaphorthe appearance of common sense. t o a businessperson ghting japanesecompetition in making automobiles, her loss is indeed t oyotas gain. but the competitive metaphor looks at only one side of the trade, the sellingside. economists see around and underneath the economy. underneath itall (as the economists say, in their favorite metaphor) jim bourbon of iowatrades with tatsuro saki of t okyo. a t oyota sold by japan pays for 2,000 tons of soybeans sold by the united states. but at the same time a japanese and an american consumer are gaining soybeans and an auto. one kid getsthe other kids pet frog in exchange for giving up his jackknife. both kidsare better off. if we look on nations in the way we look on kids making suchexchanges we can see that both nations win a little something.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 425 trade and development are in the economic metaphor positive sum, not zerosum. the economic metaphor suggests a different attitude towards trade than that of friedrich list, the german theorist of the german customsunion in the early nineteenth century, or henry carey, the nineteenth-century american theorist of protection, or lester thurow and other recent jeremiahs of american decline. talking in such a rhetorically self-conscious way about a piece of eco- nomic journalism is not just a rhetorical trick for attacking it. the point isthat all conversations are rhetorical, as i have said, that none can claim tobe the archimedean point from which others can be levered once and forall. the neoclassical economists who would disagree with thurow, such ashis colleague at massachusetts institute of t echnology, paul krugman, usemetaphors, too, of humans as calculating machines and rational choosers.the neoclassicals say that the human situation is rational choice, the max-imization of an objective function subject to constraints. their metaphoris less thrilling perhaps than the economy as a struggle between good andevil or as the nal round of the national b asketball association playoffs; but it is no less metaphorical on that count. the rational-choice model is themaster metaphor of mainstream economics, enticing one to think as ifpeople really made decisions in this way. the metaphor has disciplined theconversation among neoclassical economists the discipline is: if you dont use it, i wont listen and has produced much good. t o it we owe insightsinto subjects ranging from the consumption function in the twentieth cen-tury to the enclosure movement in the eighteenth. y et, to repeat, it is ametaphor. the neoclassicals (i am one of them) are very fond of their metaphor of people as calculating machines. what is problematical is the positiveand objective status they ascribe to it. it was not always so. ambiguity andcontention surrounded the triumph of calculating choice as the denition of economics, as did the triumph of the computer analogy in psychology, andit was by no means always regarded as an innocent analytic technique. morethan a century ago william stanley jevons found the calculating machinepersuasive on the non-positivist grounds that it tted with benthams cal-culus of pleasure and pain; vilfredo pareto, too, credited it in the early yearsof this century with psychological signicance. the neoclassical conversation about the logic of choice, despite the cen- tripetal force of a mathematics teachable to all, has itself tended to break into smaller groups. the new classical macroeconomist has enchanted manyyoung economists, with their lust for certitude. the neo-keynesian, once

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 426 deirdre n. mccloskey himself lusty, holds back, nding solace in tales of akerlof and sayings of sen (klamer 1983, 1984). the other heirs of adam smith diverge more sharplyfrom the faith. even when educated in neoclassical economics, for example,the marxist economist will object to the neoclassical reduction of the socialtothe individual; the austrian economist will object on the other hand to the aggregation of the individual in the social. the marxist prefers a con-versation about the class basis of work; the austrian prefers a conversation about the ineffable individuality of the entrepreneur. the mutual overlapof these conversations is large by the standard of their overlap with non-economic conversations you can get any economist to talk to you aboutthe entry of new rms into ecological niches, for example, or the adequaciesof a monetary theory of ination but the lack of overlap is large, too, bythe standard of what it should be. speaking of conversations being more or less similar yet having different notions of how to persuade will make a monist angry. a good monist-detection device is to say to him truth is plural and watch the color of hisnose. the monist, though, has had his way for too long in the modern world,traveling about from conversation to conversation instructing people in the law. intelligence, he says, must be measured in a single number and beused to stream school children. the writing of history is solely a matterof gathering pre-existing facts from archives. economics must not usequestionnaires, because any behaviorist knows that these might be falselyanswered. economics will only be a real science when it uses experimentssuch as a withered branch of psychology once depended on. the new pluralist and pragmatic and hermeneutic and rhetorical con- versation about the conversation weaves a web of signicance, in clifford geertzs phrase, around the talk of economists. the new conversation ineconomics is only imitating what the economists themselves actually dowith their stories and metaphors when they talk about the federal reserve board and the trade decit with japan. as the great applied economist siralec cairncross put it, when it comes to action, economic theory is only one input among many. it has tobe combined with a grasp of political and administrative feasibility and above all has to take advantage of experience and observation, not rely wholly on logic. ashas often been remarked, logic can be a way of going wrong with condence. (cairncross 1992, p. 20) economics, then, might be well advised to step down from the pedestal on which like the woman of the 1950s it fondly imagines it stands. a

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 427 conversation in modern economics differs from economic journalism but is similar, differs from ction but is similar, differs from poetry but is sim-ilar, differs from mathematics but is similar, differs from philosophy but issimilar. there is no hierarchy here, no monist philosopher king reachinginto conversations to spoil their tone. i recommend a rhetorically sophis-ticated culture for economists, in which, as richard rorty says, neitherthe priests nor the physicists nor the poets nor the party were thought ofas more rational, or more scientic or deeper than one another. noparticular portion of culture would be singled out as exemplifying (or sig-nally failing to exemplify) the condition to which the rest aspired. or asthe linguist james d. mccawley puts it, no particular tradition has a righttospeak for humanity as a whole ...or for reason as divorced from all the diverse reasoning individuals and traditions of reasoning (1990, p.380). the present attitude, at least among those who have not yet felt thedoubts of the frustrated scientist and the others, is ignorance about thevariety of economics and of similar conversations, an ignorance breedingcontem pt. consider as a down-to-earth example the public conversation in the early 1990s about the budget crisis. the budget crisis was and is a real thing,because grammrudmanhollings made it so. but as president bush wouldhave said it was also a word thing. the words make the crisis, too. ... inother words, rhetoric is speech with an audience. all speech that intends topersuade is rhetorical, from higher math to lower advertising. in 1991 the republican rhetoric of the budget crisis intended to persuade an audience of middle-income taxpayers, the victims of the bubble in tax rates, sturdyyeomen, it turns out, who were the top 5 percent of incomes. the same wealthy audience was supposed to be persuaded by the democratic rhetoric, because the audience of the top 5 percent is the politically inuential one.the democratic rhetoric in 1991 and in the election campaign of 1992 wastopropose taxing the very (very) rich in order to save the middle class. dont tax him; dont tax me; tax that fellow eating brie. it turns out thatthere arent enough brie eaters to solve the budget crisis. butwait a minute. the expert economists offer us a way out of the rhetoric, dont they? the public and politicians indulge in wordcraft, but dont theexperts just give us the plain facts and logic? no,they dont. experts want to persuade audiences, too, and therefore exercise wordcraft, in no dishonorable sense. their rhetorics agree on some points. for instance, economists agree that the crisis is self-imposed, aweapon wielded by the economist-turned-senator, phil gramm, trying to

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 428 deirdre n. mccloskey get the mules attention. but the economic experts disagree on whether the underlying problem of the decit is serious or not. their disagreements spring not from idiocy or bad faith but from rhetorical choices, often madeunconsciously. suppose the economist uses a metaphor of the united states as a mere portion of a world economy, in the same way as iowa is a portion of theupper midwest. he will therefore not believe the story of the decit causingahigher interest rate in the united states. the interest rate, he will say, is a result of the whole worlds demand for funds. quit worrying about the little piece of it called the us federal decit. or suppose the economist uses a storyof a slippery slope to socialism. in that story a loosening of the federal budgetleads to b-1 bombers and subsidies to farm owners in the top 5 percent ofincomes. the expertise shows in the rhetoric, though many of the experts dont recognize their own rhetoric. an economist is a poet but doesnt know it. heis a novelist, too, and lives happily ever after. he is a philosopher, but does not know himself. is the budget in crisis? it depends on your wordcraft,that greek word to the wise, rhetoric. refere nces aristotle. 1991. rhet oric.trans. george a. kennedy. new y ork: oxford university press. barry, brian. 1965. political argument .london: routledge kegan paul. becker, gary s. 1964. human capital: a theoretical and empirical analysis, with special reference to education .national bureau for economic research. new y ork: columbia university press. berger, john. 1985. the sense of sight: writings by john berger .ed. l. spencer. new y ork: pantheon. bicchieri, cristina. 1988. should a scientist abstain from metaphor? pp. 100114 in klamer, solow, and mccloskey, eds., consequences . blundell, william e. 1988. the art and craft of feature writing .new y ork: new american library. cairncross, alec. 1992. from theory to policy-making: economics as a profession. banco nazionale del lavoro quarterly review 180 (march): 320. feiwel, george r. 1987. arrowand the ascent of modern economics .basingstoke: macmillan. gergen, kenneth j. 1986. correspondence versus autonomy in the language of under- standing human action. pp. 136162 in fiske and shweder, eds., metatheory in social science . gordon, david. 1991. review of mccloskeys, if y oure so smart. review of austrian economics 5(2): 123127. kirby,john t. 1990. the great triangle in early greek rhetoric and poetics. rhet orica 8: 213228.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 the rhetoric of this economics 429 klamer, arjo. 1983. conversations with economists: new classical economists and oppo- nents speak out on the current controversy in macroeconomics ,totawa, n. j.: rowman and allanheld. .1984. levels of discourse in new classical economics. history of political economy 16 (summer): 263290. klamer, arjo and thomas c. leonard. 1993. so whats a metaphor? in philip mirowski, ed.,natural images in economics .cambridge: cambridge university press. klamer, arjo, robert m. solow, and d. n. mccloskey, eds., 1988. the consequences of economic rhetoric .new y ork: cambridge university press. kuhn, thomas. 1977. the essential tension: selected studies in scientic tradition and change .chicago: university of chicago press. lanham, richard a. 1974. style: an anti-textbook .new haven: y ale university press. .1992. the extraordinary convergence: democracy, t echnology, theory, and the university curriculum. pp. 3356 in darryl j. gless and barbara herrn-stein smith, eds., the politics of liberal education .durham, n.c.: duke university press. .1993. the electronic world: democracy, technology, and the arts .chicago: uni- versity of chicago press. levi,primo, and tullio regge. 1992. conversations .trans. r. rosenthal. harmondsworth: penguin books. mccawley, james d. 1990. the dark side of reason [review of feyerabends farewell toreason.] critical review 4(3, summer): 377385. mccloskey, d. n. 1985. the rhetoric of economics .madison: university of wisconsin press. mcgrath, francis c. 1985. how metaphor works: what boyles law and shakespeares 73rd sonnet have in common. department of english, university of southernmaine, portland, maine. marcus, solomon. 1974. fifty-two oppositions between scientic and poetic commu- nication. pp. 8396 in c. cherry, ed., pragmatic aspects of human communication . dordrecht, holland: reidel. moore, ruth. 1966 (1985). niels bohr: the man, his science, and the world they changed . cambridge, mass. and london: mit press. nelson, john. 1983. models, statistics, and other tropes of politics: or, whatever hap- pend to argument in political science? in zarefsky, d., sillars, m. o., and rhodes,j.,eds.,argument in transition: proceedings of the third summer conference on argu- mentation .annandale, va.: speech communication association. oakeshott, michael. 1959 (1991). the voice of poetry in the conversation of mankind. pp. 488541 in oakeshott, rationalism in politics and other essays. indianapolis: liberty classics. petrey,sandy. 1990. speech acts and literary theory .n e wy o r k and london: routledge kegan paul. plato. 1925. georgias .trans. w. r. m. lamb. cambridge, mass.: harvard university press. .1914. phaedrus .trans, h. n. fowler. cambridge, mass.: harvard university press. quine, w. v . 1987. quiddities: an intermittently philosophical dictionary .cambridge, mass.: harvard university press.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c22 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:21 430 deirdre n. mccloskey rorty,richard. 1979. philosophy and the mirror of nature .p r i n c e t o n :p r inceton univer- sity press. rosenblatt, louise m. 1978. the reader, the text, the poem: the transactional theory of the literary work .carbondale: southern illinois university press. thucydides. 1972. history of the peloponnesian war .trans. r. warner. harmondsworth: penguin books. thurow, lester. 1985. the zero-sum solution: building a world-class american economy . new york: s imon and schuster. wittgenstein, ludwig. 1945 (1958). philosophical investigations: the english text of the third edition .trans. g. e. m. anscombe. new y ork: macmillan.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 twenty-three realism uskali m aki uskali m aki (1951 ) is currently an academy professor in the academy of finland. heholds a ph.d. from faculty of the social sciences at the university of helsinki and has published extensively in both economics and philosophy. the author ofover one hundred essays and a past editor of the journal of economic methodology , makis interests span the entire domain of economic methodology. realism has been a persistent interest, and a number of his publications explore the varietiesof realism to be found in economics. m aki has played a key role in establishing economic methodology as a discipline. when an economist talks about the realism of assumptions , he is not using the term realism in any of its standard philosophical senses. another dif-culty that plagues the term is that it has a variety of legitimate philosophicalmeanings that are interrelated but do not reduce to each other. realismis used as the name for a variety of doctrines about things such as science,sense perception, universals, other minds, the past, mathematical objects,truth, moral values, possibilities and so on. this is expressed in the fact that the opponents of realists on these issues are not called uniformly by a singlelabel. depending on the issue at hand, the non-realists are said to subscribetopositions such as idealism, phenomenalism, empiricism, nominalism, conventionalism, instrumentalism, operationism, ctionalism, relativism and constructivism. this variety is also the reason why no shorthand de-nition and no single non-disjunctive de nition, whether short or long of the term realism can be provided. the following considers ontological,semantic and epistemological formulations of realism without pretendingtobe exhaustive. pages 40409 of the handbook of economic methodology ,edited by john b. davis, d. wade hands, and uskali m aki. cheltenham, uk: edward elgar. copyright c circlecopyrt1998 by john b. davis, d.wade hands, and uskali m aki. reprinted with the permission of the copyright holders and edward elgar publishing. 431

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 432 uskali m aki as an ontological doctrine, realism has the general form of the statement, xexists , or xsarereal . xi sav a r iable which may acquire different spec- ications. for each specication there corresponds a version of ontologicalrealism. the most general and weakest variety of ontological realism is pro- duced w hen xi sr e p l a c e dw ith the world . no further specications of the constituents and nature of the world is provided. this form of ontological realism does not include any ideas about the way the world exists, it only amounts to the idea that the world exists. if we re place xwith universals , we get doctrines such as platonic or aristotelian realism which state that universals exist; that is, it is universals (alone or also) that constitute the world. not only (or not) the many partic-ulars, such as round objects and business rms and rational men, but also(or only) roundness and rmhood and rationality and manhood exist. thisis in fact the original usage of realism , used in connection with the debateover universals between the realists and their opponents, the nominalists. nominalism may also be a form of realism: it replaces xwith particulars and states that there is nothing but particulars in the world. if we re place xwith medium-sized material entities or objects of sense perception , we get standard forms of ontological commonsense realism. in general, realist theories in this category state that the perceivable common-sense world is real; in other words, that objects such as clouds and clocks,horses and houses, mountains and marmalade exist that the objects thatcommon sense takes to exist do exist in the objective way that common sense takes them to exist. the opponents of realism in the theory of perceptioninclude the idealists (to whom it is ideas that constitute the world) andphenomenalists (who try to construe the world out of what they call sensedata). commonsense realism can also be taken to comprise the idea thatthe mental entities in terms of which commonsense psychology or folkpsychology conceptualizes our lives and behaviour exist. accordingly, thereis a fact of the matter regarding what we intend, want, believe, mean, hopeand fear; that is, intentions, wants, beliefs and meanings exist (even in caseswhere what they appear to be about do not exist such as mermaids andrudolph the reindeer). eliminative mat erialists are among the opponents of commonsense realism about the mental. if we re place xwith the (often unobservable) entities as objects of (most or best, current or future) scientic theories such as electrons, pho-tons, quarks, electromagnetic elds, curved spacetime, genes, viruses, brain states and so on, we get the ontological statement of scientic realism. the world as postulated in scientic theories now becomes the (or a) world that is real. the opponents of realism about the ontology of scientic theories

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 realism 433 are the ctionalists and (ontological) instrumentalists. in the case of radical physicalist scientic realism according to which only entities postulatedbyphysical sciences exist the opponents also include those who advo- cate commonsense realism. more moderate forms of scientic realism mayaccommodate the existence of perceivable material entities of the common-sense world or even (at least some of) the mental entities of commonsensepsychology. there are other and more controversial versions, such as the one we get byreplacing xwith possible worlds , called modal realism byits advocates, such as david lewis. according to this version, existence is not restricted tothe actual world; the actual world is just one among many existing possibleworlds. animportant question concerns the quantier that the above forms of realism could use in relation to the entities that are claimed to exist. such aquantier indicates answers to the question how many? such as all , no and some . no realist would like to claim that allposited universals, particulars, commonsense objects and or scientic objects exist (this wouldimply that father christmas, centaurs and phlogiston are all as real as greentealeaves and dna molecules). many other realists commit themselves to the existence of at least some of these entities. many scientic realists wouldsay that most of the objects postulated in well-established scientic theories exist. however, none of these quantiers is necessary for ontological realism; none of them should be included in the denition of realism. it is sufcientfor realism about xtohold that xmight exist, that the notion of xexisting is a sensible and coherent notion. this raises the key issue concerning theappropriate concepts of existence. specication of the types and numbers of entities that are claimed to exist is not sufcient for a complete understanding of ontological realism. itis necessary to specify what is meant by the expressions exists and is real . the rst decision to be made about this question concerns whether there is an ontological notion of exists and is real that is conceptuallyindependent of epistemic considerations and of specic conceptual frame-worksinwhich the specications of x appear; that is, whether in addition toac oncept of existence within a framework there is a sensible and x framework-independent concept for expressing the idea that x exists (ordoes not exist). for example, the question may be whether the meaning ofexist in the statement, photons exist , may be understood independently of the meaning of the term photon and of the specic theoretical frameworksin which photon is embedded and of the epistemic claims we may feel tobe justied in making about the existence of photons (such as the evidence

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 434 uskali m aki suggests that photons exist). if we claim that the very ontological notion of existence is in such a way independent, our notion is unproblematically a realist one. there are those, however, who claim to be realists but deny the framework-independent notion of exists and is real; they sometimes callthemselves internal or epistemic realists, while external or metaphysicalrealism is preserved for those who subscribe to the independence thesis. the second decision concerns the meaning of exists and is real more directly. the conventional specication is exists mind-independently o r exists independently of the human mind .this formulation has the implica- tion that it excludes realism about mental entities and entities dependenton the mental, such as persons, material artefacts, and social institutionsconstrued in a dualist or non-eliminative physicalist fashion; it restricts the scope of realism to the material or physical world. what this entails ismaterialist or physicalist realism. obviously, this formulation is not abletoaccommodate realism about social sciences postulating things such as intentions, expectations, roles, conventions or institutions; thus economicswould be a hopeless case for such a realist. there are alternative specica- tions of exists that could be thought to avoid the above implication, such asexists recognition-independently o r exists inquiry-independently o r exists independently of any particular act of representation of it .one may then argue that mental entities and or social entities exist in one or more such sensesand that these senses are genuinely realist ones. realism has increasingly also become a name for some semantic views, that is, views concerning such things as reference and truth. in the for-mulations above, the use of the notion of reference could not be avoided completely; for example, scientic realism as an ontological thesis about the existence of certain objects was dened in terms of theories being about those objects, that is, theories referring to them. the claim that scientic theoriesand the terms they include refer to real existents is part of the semantic thesis of scientic realism. the other part of semantic realism is the thesis thatthe sentences contained in scientic theories are genuine, true or false ,state- ments about the real world and that they have a truth value irrespective ofwhether we are able to determine it. some philosophers, such as dummett,take bivalence the principle that every proposition is either true or false asadening characteristic of realism. standard forms of instrumentalism are among the opponents of realism so understood. for them, scientic theoriesare just calculation or inference devices with no semantic ties to reality; or ifthey have semantic properties suc hasthat of falsehood these properties are taken to be irrelevant for our assessment of them. various epistemicconceptions of truth, such as the idea of truth as warranted assertability or

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 realism 435 truth as idealized rational acceptability, challenge the notion that truth may escape even ideal knowers in ideal conditions; that truth is independent ofour ways and chances of nding out about it. pragmatisms of various sortscontain the negation of this realist idea. as against such views, realists hold the view that even a methodologically pe rfect theory, fully satisfying all the desiderata we can imagine, can still be mistaken. these ideas are sometimes complemented by other views attributed to realism about science, such as that most current scientic theories are (at least approximately) true and or that, as science develops, its theories getprogressively nearer to the truth. however, these ideas are not required by themost basic and simple realist theses; realism might be correct even thoughmost current science was wrong and even if science did not converge towardsthe truth. the same could be argued to be the case with a popular normativeidea ascribed to realism about science, namely that science should pursuetrue accounts of the world. realism is also used in connection with a specic view of what truth is, namely the correspondence theory of truth. there are many versions ofthis theory, but they share the idea that it is somehow partly in virtue of theway the world is that sentences (statements, beliefs or utterances) are trueor false that truth is in this sense objective and that truth amounts toacorrespondence between the way the world is claimed to be and the way the world is. correspondence theories differ from one another as to howthey view the correspondence relation and the two poles linked by it. manyrealists wish to link this view of truth with the very concept of realism. many others dispute the connection. some of them endorse the correspondencetheory as a separate idea which is not implied by realism. others again trytodo without the correspondence theory, typically favouring redundancy or deationary or minimalist views of truth instead; these views imply that,roughly speaking, to say that it is true that free trade tends to equalize factory prices adds nothing to free trade tends to equalize factor prices . while the ontological meaning of realism is the traditional and primary one, it can be and has been complemented by the epistemological pointthat the xsthat are claimed to exist are also knowable. different forms ofepistemological realism presuppose some versions of ontological realism and semantic realism and add to them the idea of being known or beingknowable. epistemological realism says of some existing xthat facts about xare known or can be known, implying that knowers have epistemic access tox,that there is no veil separating the cognitive subject and the existing object. a variety of different forms of epistemological realism is possible,depending on how one analyses the very idea of knowledge, how the means

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 436 uskali m aki of knowledge acquisition are conceived and what the relevant xis taken to be. regarding the latter two matters, one can be a scientic epistemologicalrealist, relying on what science now claims to be the case or on the potential capability of science to nd out facts about the world, where both cases arebased on a reliance on the cognitive power of the theoretical and empiricalprocedures (as well as the institutional organization) used by science. likewise, one can be a commonsense realist about perceptual knowledge. traditionally, theories of perception have played a dominant role in real- ist epistemologies. realist doctrines about perception are usually dividedinto two main categories, direct and indirect realism. direct realism says that perception is directly about (is a direct awareness of) material objectswhich exist and that nothing else exists between perception and perceptibleobjects. naive realism ,usually unsupported by philosophers but postulated for purposes of criticism, is a version of direct realism which states that weperceive objects as they are; that is, that sense data or sensible qualities arethe intrinsic properties of material objects and that these objects have allthe properties they are perceived as having and that these properties arenot affected by changes in perceivers and conditions of perception. indirect realism states that perception is directly about mental representations (such as bodily sensations and after-images) and only indirectly about the externalworld and that both its direct and indirect o bjects exist. versions of indirect realism include lockes representative realism and a movement in the united states in the rst decades of the twentieth century known as critical real- ism(lovejoy, santayana, r. w. sellars and others). in a generalized form, the label critical realism has been adopted by philosophers to indicate theview that there is a difference between that which is experienced and that which exists independently of being ex perienced. more generally, philoso- phers advocating such views emphasize the possibly distorting contributionof the knowing subject to the cognition. this is related to the idea of fallibility. fallibilism is the view that knowl- edge claims are in principle fallible (and possibly corrigible, revisable in thelight of further evidence and arguments) so that full certitude is unattain-able. realists typically are fallibilists, opposing both dogmatism and radical scepticism. even more, realism is often dened so as to presuppose fallibil-ism. this is entailed by the idea, mentioned above, that even an epistemicallyideal theory or statement may be wrong. itis a widely shared view among realist philosophers that the resolution of (or to put it less strongly: progress with respect to) issues about many themesmentioned above, such as what the world is made of, and what reference,truth and knowledge amount to, is up to future science. in other words, the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 realism 437 specications are understood as being aposteriori in regard to the progress of special sciences such as biology, cognitive science and, to anticipate boldly,economics. it is not the task of philosophy, in this opinion, to decide ap riori what kinds of entities exist, what structure the world has, what relations ourlanguage has to the non-linguistic reality, what can be known and perceived,and so on. as an aposteriori exercise, philosophy produces claims that are fallible in the same sense that any other claims may be wrong. do realism and economics t together? this is a question of interest to economists, economic methodologists, philosophers of science, politiciansand lay public. the answer depends on what we mean by economics andrealism . for example, we can take economics to refer variously to any current form of economics or to economics as we would like it to be oreconomics as it might be and the answer might vary accordingly. as forrealism, we have not exhausted the full list in the foregoing, but we have come up with many forms of realism, and the answer obviously depends on the form(s) we choose. for example, if we opt for radical physicalist scienticrealism, current economics will not t. the outcome is the same if realism is taken to require that all components of economic theories be true. however,anumber of economists have been shown or can be shown tosubscribe to one or another form of realism. these include j. h. von thunen, j. s. mill, karl marx, j. e. cairnes, carl menger, lionel robbins, nicholas kaldor, milton friedman, ronald coase, george richardson, oliver williamson and others. even though there are important differencesbetween them, they share the view that economic reality has an objectively(albeit not mind-independently) existing structure, and that economic the-ories, even though being partial and involving false elements, are able totruly represent some of the important aspects of this reality. there are some special features regarding realism about economics, such as commonsenserealism playing a prominent role. this is because economic theories much of the time appear to be pretty much about the same objects that our com-monsense understanding of the economy is about, such as households andbusiness rms, money and prices, buying and selling, wants and expecta-tions. another feature, and an epistemologically signicant one, is that thesimplied and isolated settings theoret ically brought about by economists usually cannot be reproduced empirically, thus making the empirical test-ing of truth claims particularly difcult. fallibilism should therefore play anexceptionally prominent role in economics. asan explicit research project, realism has been explored only recently in economic methodology. two major realist projects have been those of uskalimaki (the rst published statement appeared in 1982) and t ony lawson (for

p1: jzp 9780521883504c23 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:57 438 uskali m aki example 1997). the differences between these two projects are many, but two meta-methodological ones stand out immediately. one is that lawsons project is largely an application of one philosophical system, that of roy bhaskar, while m akis is a matter of drawing from different philosophical sources as well as creating new conceptual tools that are hoped to reectsome of the peculiar features of economics. the other is that lawsonsproject is supposed to have more o rless direct critical implications about the poverty of what is called mainstream economics, while m akis project has been more neutral: the normative implications are expected to be moreindirect and to require lots of factual premises that go beyond realism as aphilosophical doctrine. boylan and ogorman ( 1995 )provide expositions and criticisms of these two projects. t hese projects do not exhaust all there is to the study of realism in the context of economics. many other economicmethodologists and philosophers of e conomics (such as alex rosenberg, alan nelson, daniel hausman, don ross, nancy cartwright and others)have contributed to the realist project without necessarily doing it explicitlyunder the banner of realism . refere nces armstrong, david (1978), universals and scientic realism ,vols iii, cambridge. boylan, t om and paschal ogorman (1995), beyond rhetoric and realism ,l o n d o n : routledge. devitt, michael (1984), realism and truth ,princeton: princeton university press. lawson, t ony (1997), economics and reality ,cambridge: cambridge university press. leplin, jarrett (ed.) (1984), scientic realism ,berkeley: university of california press. maki, uskali (1989), on the problem of realism in economics , ricerche economiche , 43,17698; reprinted in bruce caldwell (ed.), the philosophy and methodology of economics ,aldershot: edward elgar, 1993. maki, uskali (1992), on the method of isolation in economics , idealization iv: intelli- gibility in science ,ed. craig dilworth, special issue of poznan studies in the philosophy ofthe sciences and the humanities ,26,31954. maki, uskali (1993), the market as an isolated causal process: a metaphysical ground for realism , in bruce caldwell and stephan boehm (eds), austrian economics: tensions and new directions ,d o r d r echt: kluwer. maki, uskali (1996), scientic realism and some peculiarities of economics , boston studies in the philosophy of science ,169,42545. putnam, hilary (1981), reason, truth and history ,cambridge: cambridge university press. searle, john (1995), the construction of social reality ,new y ork: free press. sellars, wilfrid (1963), science, perception and reality ,london: routledge kegan paul.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 twenty-four what has realism got to do with it? to ny l aw s o n tonylawson (1950 ) received a ph.d. in economics from cambridge university after a rst degree in mathematics from the university of london. lawson is the organizer of the long-running cambridg erealist workshop and the cambridge social ontology group, and he is currently executive director of the cambridgecentre for gender studies. his work lies on the boundaries between philosophyand economics, with a special emphasis on ontology. he has been an editor ofthecambridge journal of economics for twenty-ve years, and sits on many other editorial boards including that of feminist economics .t h e author of numerous papers and books, lawson has played a key role in promoting heterodox economicsand establishing social ontology as a focus of research in modern economics. forseveral years now i and a number of others (see e.g., fleetwood, 1999 ) have been contributing to a project in economics that is often referred to as realist. in a recent article in economics and philosophy dan hausman ques- tions whether realism is actually a feature of this project worth emphasizing(hausman, 1998 ). in fact, hausman goes as far as to suggest that making reference to this aspect of the projec tmayactually be misleading or other- wise unhelpful. his basic worry is summarized in the concluding section of his paper where he writes: tolabel ones program for economic methodology as realist inevitably suggests that the competing programs are not realist or fail to be realist enough. in the case of economic methodology, this suggestion is misleading, because there is noanti-realist school of economic methodolo gy,and there are few methodologists (as opposed to economists) who are instrumentalists either. what is distinctive aboutlawsons and m akis programs is not realism which they share with the rest of for help ful comments on an earlier (longer) draft i am grateful to clive lawson, paul lewis, stephen pratten and jochen runde. economics and philosophy ,vol. 15 (1999): 26982. reprinted with the permission of cambridge university press. 439

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 440 tony lawson economic methodology but something else. that something else can, of course, be a particular formulation of realism, such as lawsons critical realism. but it would be less misleading if what was distinctive was characterized in terms of what distinguishes it from alternatives, rather than in terms of what it shares with them.(pp. 2089) nowiinfer from this passage that hausmans concern lies not with the project in question being interpreted as realist (for hausman acknowledges that it is); nor necessarily (or primarily) with its being distinguished oriden- tied as aspecic formulation of realism (after all hausman accepts that the something else that can make a programme distinctive can, of course, be aparticular formulation of realism, such as lawsons critical realism); but with it sometimes being distinguished oridentied simply as realist .f o ri t is this practice before any other that inevitably suggests that the competing programs are not realist or fail to be realist enough (emphasis added). in truth, however, i believe that even this latter practice is more than justied in the circumstances. my primary object here is briey to indicate why. inthe course of pursuing it i take the opportunity to identify what i believetobe some signicant differences between hausmans programme and my own. realist as a contrast to non-realist notice rst that hausman identies two possible inferences to be drawn where a project is identied explicitly as realist: that competing programseither are not realist , or fail to be realist enough . let me consider each inturn. nowiam, of course, ready to acknowledge that we are indeed all realists of sorts, and that this is so with regard to many interpretations of the term.indeed i have usually taken pains to emphasize as much. in economics and reality ,for example, i acknowledge that ...any position might be des- ignated a realism (in the philosophical sense of the term) that asserts theexistence of some disputed kind of entity ...(lawson, 1997a ,p.15). and i add that, clearly on this denition we are all realists of a kind, and there areverymany conceivable realisms (p. 15). i believe, too, that most scientists are scientic realists regarding (are committed to the independent or priorexistence of) at least some of their posited objects of investigation. tobe sure, i usually use the term realism in a specic way, primar- ily to indicate an ontological orientation. however, i am equally ready toacknowledge that we are all realists even in the particular sense of holding

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 441 (or at least presupposing) ontological positions. in my writings, i have con- tinually acknowledged that all metho ds and criteria, etc., presuppose an implicit ontology, an unstated account of reality (see for example lawson,1997a ,p.49). even explicit attempts to suppress ontology result only in the generation of an implicit one, as i have frequently pointed out in discussinghumes empiricism or forms of postmodernism (see, for example, lawson, 1997a ,chapter 6). so we are all realists of some sort, and perhaps of many sorts. does it follow thereby that a social-theory project oriented to economics shouldnot identify itself as realist? not at all. specic projects, programmes andactivities in all walks of life are re gularly identied according to certain fundamental aspects or features which also gure in other projects, etc., but less centrally so. forexample, hausman distinguishes his own project as one in method- ology. i, m aki, and others whom hausman identies explicitly, are all and are interpreted by hausman as being involved with methodology inour projects. and so indeed are all economists. all approaches, methods,techniques, goals, criteria, etc., adopted by economists, and everyone else, presuppose conceptions of scientic or proper method. thus all economists, and indeed all scientists or researchers, are inherently methodological. doesthis mean that hausman should desist from designating his particularproject as explicitly methodological, in case he is erroneously interpreted asimplying thereby that all other projects are not methodological? are cooksnot to be distinguished as cooks because we all cook? or singers as singers,runners as runners, economists as economists, teachers as teachers, students as students, and so on? realist: more rather than less the reason most of us do not distinguish ourselves as cooks, singers, runners,carers or cleaners, etc., is not because we do not engage in these activities, butbecause we do not pursue any of them sufciently ardently or seriously, onaregular or consistent enough basis. this, i think, is the relevant point. and it brings me to hausmans second worry about explicitly labelling a projectrealist: that so doing inevitably suggests that the competing programs ...fail tobe realist enough . there is a sense in which this is exactly what i am suggesting. inidentifying my project as realist i am rst and foremost wanting toindicate a conscious and sustained orientation towards examining, and

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 442 tony lawson formulating explicit positions concerning, the nature and structure of social reality, as well as investigating the nature and grounds of ontological (and other) presuppositions of prominent or otherwise signicant or interestingcontributions. and i am wanting to suggest that it is precisely this sort of explicit concern with questions of ontology that is (or has been) lacking in modern economics. this is an absence, indeed, that i believe contributessignicantly to the disciplines current malaise. in this sense of the term, inmyview, most of the projects contributing to the development of modern economics are not nearly realist enough. butthere is, at least, a second, albeit related, sense in which projects in economics are not realist enough, and in which i want to distinguish myown. i refer here to the tendency of most projects in economics implicitly toconate the real with what is or could be apparent (or is observable), and fail in any meaningful, systematic or sustained fashion to go beyondappearances to the (equally real but not necessarily wholly apparent) underlying structures, powers, mechanisms and tendencies that generate orcondition the surface phenomena of reality. competing programmes before giving more detail on all this, however, i must refer once more to hausmans specic formulation of his worry: that others may infer that i am suggesting that the competing programs are not realist or fail to berealist enough . the feature of it i want to focus upon here is hausmans reference to competing programs . it seems from the longer passage in which this inference is embedded (noted at the outset above), that hausman hasin mind here only programmes of methodologists, where methodologistsare explicitly contrasted, by hausman, to economists. i should immedi-ately emphasize, then, that hausman is in error if he is presuming, ashe seems to be, that, in adopting such a realist orientation, the compet-ing programs i am addressing are only, or even primarily, those of otherswho explicitly distinguish themselves as methodologists. i do address these.butthey are by no means my main intended audiences, opponents or comp etitors . economics and reality ,for example, is explicitly aimed at an audience of general economists, both mainstream and non-mainstream. i view it as acontribution to economics as social theory. the identied opponents are contributors, or potential contributors, to the contemporary mainstream programme (p. xvii). i optimistically saw (and continue to see) myself asattempting to contribute to a fruitful transformation of the discipline. and

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 443 isaw,and see, the taking of an explicitly realist orientation as a signicant step to this end (p. 15). that said, it happens that i do believe that most contributions explicitly designated programmes in economic methodology are (or have been) alsonot realist enough. i return to this below. for the time being, however, iwant to concentrate on the mainstream programme in economics. for, as isay, i believe that this is indeed not realist enough in the senses indicated,and that the contrast between this project and my own is alone sufcientjustication although not the only reason for distinguishing the latterexplicitly as realist. the problem with modern mainstream economics letmebemore specic. first, for anyone with an interest in metaphysics, it does not take too much familiarity with our discipline to recognize acontinuing failure of modern economists to examine the nature and con- sistency, etc., of the ontological, and other, presuppositions of their variouspronouncements on, and decisions concerning, matters of substantive the-ory and method. it follows immediately, i think, that any project concernedsystematically so to examine these ontological questions can fairly be identi- edexplicitly as a realist. my own project can certainly be identied as realist in this sense. butid ogomuch further in a direction that can (also) be reasonably described as realist. specically, i, along with others, have been engaged inarange of investigations aimed at attempting to provide a sustainable social metaphysics, a theory of social reality, to inform the fashioning of methodsof social, including economic, analysis. fundamental to this project has beenthe questioning of the nature of social material, investigating its mode of being, structure and peculiarities, conditions, and so forth. the orientation of this project thus contrasts quite signicantly with the mainstream approach of (unthinkingly) adopting methods assumed to besuccessfully utilized in the natural sciences or somehow thought, on an apriori basis, to characterize proper science. fundamental to the mainstreamposition is an insistence on working with formalistic models. indeed, theprimary objective of this mainstream tradition is the production of theoriesthat facilitate mathematical tractability. in contrast my goal, naive thoughit may sound, is to pursue true theories, or at least to achieve those that areexplanatorily powerful. ihavefound that the two sets of objectives, explanatorily powerful the- ories and mathematically tractable mode ls, are usually incompatible, just

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 444 tony lawson because of the nature of the social world. for whereas the latter has been found to be quintessentially open and se emingly susceptible to scientically interesting local closures, the generalized use of formalistic economic meth-ods presupposes that the social world is everywhere closed. by a closurehere i mean merely a system in which event regularities (deterministic orprobabilistic) occur. twosets of observations, at least, can be explained by this incompatibility: that formalistic models are rarely, if ever, found to be empirically success-ful, and that the entities posited in mainstream theorizing (determinedon the basis of being facilitative of mathematical tractability and othermainly pragmatic criteria) are usually seen to be unrealistic in many essentialways. mainstream economists seem to suppose there is no other way of proceed- ing. for those econometricians most if not all of them who care aboutt with reality (assumed to be captured by data on measurable events and states of affairs) the hope appears to be that empirically successful mod-els will be uncovered in due course. but although some equally hope thepositing of theoretical entities recognized as severely unrealistic is also atemporary situation, many act as if it does not matter. here there are indeed elements of anti-realism in the mainstream position. some are quite explic- itlyanti-realist when commenting on the perceived status of the theoretical entities that are used to ground their models (if not in their conceptions ofthe events and states of affairs thought to be captured by the data). thatis, they explicitly pronounce, a philosophical theory about economic the-ories or models to the effect that either it is not meaningful to talk of truemodels or true models are not possible (for example, see the discussion inlawson 1997a ,especially page 325). nowthe primary problem or error of the mainstream project here, as i see it, is not the anti-realist orientation of many of its participants towardsformalistic economic models per se (a stance which would appear to carry some justication), but the decision to persevere with and to insist thatall economists concern themselves with almost nothing but the modellingproject despite its long-term and continuing lack of clear empirical successes.the central mistake is one of not recognizing that the near exclusive focusupon closed systems modellin gap r o c e d u r e mainly suited to certain natural (experimental) contexts is itself questionable, and in need of justication.this, i believe, is the key to the mainstream disciplines shortfalls, turningon the more general avoidance of an explicit concern with ontology, ofomitting to investigate the nature of social reality with a view to determining

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 445 the basis of potentially more fruitful alternatives. in a word, the primary failing of modern economists is ontolog ical neglect. it is in this specic sense especially, in my view, that most economists are not being realistenough. arealist alternative of course, the sorts of responses by modellers just noted mainly serve the purpose of allowing the modelling project in economics to continue unabated. in some quarters numerous pragmatic or coherentist criteriaof model selection (elegance, parsimony, complexity, consistency with theequilibrium framework) are even invoked as if to obviate any need for theempirical assessment of models. suchresponses are certainly questionable. my alternative strategy, as i say, has been to investigate in a sustained and explicit way the nature of socialreality and to tailor methods of social inv estigation accordingly. this has cer- tainly led me to doubt whether methods of formalistic analysis have muchrelevance to the social domain. and in the process i have come to defend a conception of the social realm as emergent from, but irreducible to, human interaction. i have argued for a theory o fsocial ontology that includes forms of social structure, including social relationships, rules, positions, processesand totalities, etc., that collectively constitute a relatively autonomous realm,being dependent upon and resulting from human interaction, but withproperties that are irreducible to human interaction, though acting backupon it. in economics and reality iargue, in effect, that this social ontology covers both a vertical realism , entailing a commitment to underlying social structures, powers and entities, etc., and also a horizontal realism coveringthe transfactual operation of causal mechanisms in open and (any conceiv-able) closed systems alike, that is, whatever the outcomes. in this i ndthat causally efcacious (and often largely unobservable) social structuresand mechanisms, etc., indeed exist independently of our investigations ofthem and, individually and collectively ,constitute proper objects of social scientic study. the situation in economic methodology tothis point i have been referring mainly to the ontological neglect (in the sense of failing to sustain explicit ontological reasoning as well as ontolog-ical depth) and the consequences of this for the methodological practices

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 446 tony lawson of mainstream economists. in comparison to the largely a priori unthink- ingly reductionist and scientistic programme perpetrated by mainstreameconomists, then, the project in social theory to which i have contributedcan, i believe, with good reason be identied as realist. hausman, though, appears to be more concerned with any implied con- trasts with other projects explicitly designated methodological. now if it is the case that such methodological projects in economics are concerned toengage in a signicant way in social metaphysics explicitly, these projects, inmy view, warrant being identied explicitly as realist as well. certainly, i take this to be appropriate where any such project is concerned in this manner toconfront and ultimately help transform (and so inevitably be contrasted with) the largely a priori scientistic set of practices that is the contemporary mainstream. moreover, if in the course of such a critical endeavour a def-inite perspective on the nature of nature, science and society were derivedand defended, any such project would equally warrant being identied as aspecic formulation of realism. asit happens, however, i do believe that those projects in modern economics explicitly designated methodological have mostly (with a fewexceptions) also failed to give sufcient attention to questions of ontol- ogy or metaphysics. in the main it is questions of epistemic appraisal(i.e., epistemological questions concerning the rational basis for acceptingor rejecting theories) that have occupied the economic methodology dis-cussion (for discussions see lawson, 1997a ,pp.xiiixvi; fleetwood, 1998, pp. 12735). icannot survey the contributions of these projects here. however, in order toaddress some further rather important issues raised by hausman, and to take the discussion further in the hope of bringing clarity to our differences,imight add at this point that i harbour doubts that even hausmans own programme highly productive and insightful though it is pays sufcientattention to questions of metaphysics. it is more oriented to issues of meta-physics than most, and seems to be becoming increasingly so. y et it seemstome that it, too, ultimately fails so far both to challenge sufciently the relevance (including ontological presuppositions) of the contemporarymainstream or any other programme, or to elaborate an ontology thattakes us very far beyond the course of actual events and states of affairs. ibelieve these claims can be shown to be true of hausmans output broadlyconceived. but for present purposes, let me concentrate on the economics and philosophy paper in question where hausman, by explicit intent, is actually wanting to address issues of concern to realists.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 447 hausman and economics atvarious stages in his economics and philosophy paper, in the course of establishing some point or other (e.g., that the debate between realists and epistemological anti-realists is largely irrelevant to economics ( 1998 , p.185)), hausman makes assertions to the effect that economics does not postulate unobservables in the way physics does ( 1998 ,p.185). indeed, a central thesis is formulated as follows: ...the ontological, semantic, and epistemological issues separating realists from anti-realists and from some instrumentalists, are largely irrelevant to economics. the reason is simple: economic theories for the most part do not postulate newunobservable entities. (1998, p. 196) the question i want to pursue, of course, is which economic theories are wetalking about? all possible? those formulated in heterodox approaches? economists who have contributed to, or who have been informed by, theproject of critical realism in economics have, in their more substantive con-tributions, generated economic theories that posit a variety of novel entities which in large part, at least, are unobservable. these include particular socialrelations (gender, race, employer employee, student teacher, money ...), other structures of power, social processes, social positions, social rules,evolving totalities, specic institutions, etc. (see, eg., lawson, 1997b ,chap- ter18). this research, like that of others on industrial districts, regions, collective learning and so on, is constantly positing new categories, rela- tions, processes and totalities, etc., many, albeit not all, of which are, orpossess essential aspects that are, inevitably unobservable. indeed, humansociety itself can only be known, and not seen, to exist. hausman is thusquite wrong when he supposes that i would not ...dispute the claim that economic theories rarely posit the existence of new unobservable entities(1998 ,p.202). (for my conception of the nature of economics specically see, especially, lawson 1997b .) whyshould hausman conclude, despite everything, that economic the- ories for the most part do not posit new unobservable entities? it may bebecause, at least at the relevant stage of his discussion, he is implicitly andunquestioningly reducing economic theory to the output of the currentmainstream project in economics (or, even worse, to a specic strand ofit, to something like mainstream theoretical microeconomics). this, ofcourse, is hausmans explicit strategy in his recent ( 1992 )book the inexact and separate science of economics. anditisinthis light that we can most

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 448 tony lawson easily interpret his almost exclusive focus in the economics and philosophy paper on the question of whether the pr eferences and expectations that explain and predict choices are unobservable ( 1998 ,p.196). for only to the contemporary mainstream do such matters assume such a central, almost exclusive, role. of course, even if we focus only on this limited domain we are entitled to ask why, or in what sense, it matters that unobservables are or are not new (apparently meaning unfamiliar or non-c ommonsensical). for at one point hausman accepts that beliefs and preferences, etc., are indeed unobservable and even contested, but seems to suggest that any realist anti-realist debate this might facilitate in economics is somehow less signicant than thedebates of physics just because the noted unobservable items are knownto us : the point i want to insist on is a different one. anti-realists seek to draw a line between the relatively unproblematic claims of everyday life and the problematic theoretical posits of science. physics postulates new unobservables, to whose exis-tence commonsense realism does not commit us. although economics refers to unobservables, it does not, in contrast to physics, postulate new ones. its unobserv-ables beliefs, preferences and the like are venerable. they have been part of acommonsense understanding of the world for millennia. (1998, pp. 1978). and h eadds below: there is no issue concerning realism versus anti-realism in economics that is notsimultaneously an issue concerning the everyday understanding of the world. (1998,p.198) nowiconcur with the latter remark. but i draw from it more or less the opposite inference to hausman. certainly, i do not take it to entail, as haus- man mostly does, that we should refrain from questioning the reality andnature of certain aspects of the social realm, just because there exists a com-monsense understanding of them (that the unobservables are not in thissense new ones); i do not suppose that the everyday understanding of theworld is incorrigible. rather i believe we should be continually reassess- ing even the most familiar of our everyday categories. for example, i takemoney (a feature of everyday modern life with presumably a commonsenseunderstanding) to be a system of social relations (explaining why this pieceof metal paper plastic functions differe ntly from others). is this interpreta- tion part of commonsense understanding? is it to be discounted if (and justbecause) it is not? what, too, of the everyday gender-differentiated or class-differentiated, etc., practices, rights, obligations, etc. in any given location and their

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 449 structural conditions? i even take hausmans tables and chairs to be consti- tuted in part by social relations. when i go camping, for example, numerousitems have the potential to serve as tables (at topped tree stumps, smooth-sided lumps of rock) or serve as chairs (rocks, upturned buckets, etc.). whichitems become so constituted depends in part on us and our relations to them.ultimately, of course, this is no less true of the artifacts that we call tablesand chairs in the home. inother words, i am suggesting that just as hausman allows that, physics postulates new unobservables, to whose existence commonsense does notcommit us so too can, and often does, social science including economics. nowthis perspective cannot be ruled out just because it allows that we can, and often ought, to transcend or transform commonsense. and inthat it interprets or recognizes daily life as internally-related to underlyingstructures (including wider totalities), i think the perspective sustained doeswarrant being interpreted as rather more realist than hausmans somewhatcommonsensical and quasi-actualistic (reducing reality to the actual course of events) account. still these sorts of considerations are not my only or even my primary concern here. i return to my main point that by mostly focusing on items such as preferences and expectations, hausman appears implicitly to beinterpreting economics as little more than the current, and hardly illumi-nating, mainstream set of contributions. it is true that hausman includes inhis paper a sub-section with the more promising heading: other unobserv- ables in economics .butinessence only two sets of items socially necessary labour time on the one hand, and human capital and attributes on theother are identied as real possibilities. and each is quickly dismissedmerely on the supposed grounds of being either not economically signif-icant (p. 200) or relatively unimportant in economics (p. 202). but weare once more entitled to ask what is this economics in which these (andother unobservables) are unimportant? it can only be the contemporarymainstream. this is precisely the project i have criticized for its ontologicalneglect, and i worry that hausman may be unwittingly colluding in this bytaking the output of that largely bankrupt project as sacrosanct. nowitmayseem that against this latter criticism at least, hausman can reply that he is justied in considering only this mainstream project just because the latter accounts for most of the current output of the economicsacademy. but this is not good enough for his argument. hausman is explicitlyquestioning the reasons for designating the project with which i and othersare involved, as realist. his chosen strategy turns on showing that debatesand discussions, etc., to which i am party in economics do not involve the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 450 tony lawson postulation of new unobservable entities, and so forth. but for this to work his analysis must cover all debates, etc., to which i am a party, mainstream orotherwise. and for this, the focus must be a far wider and richer conceptionthan that which mainly turns on preferences and expectations. certainly hausman could not simultaneously maintain both that the realist aspect of the project to which i ha vecontributed is not distinctive in the context of modern economics, and also that because it is so distinctivethis aspect should not be considered a part of modern economics. hausman and critical realism itmust be admitted that hausman does appear to go further in addressing myownproject in the latter part of a later section of his paper headed tran- scendental realism .here he recognizes the questioning of whether or not unobservables exist in the social context cannot reasonably be restricted onan a priori basis, even to discussions of entities and properties; hausmannally allows the possibility that i may be positing underlying structures and mechanisms, etc., as amongst the proper objects of economic study. ulti-mately, though, this section mainly comprises various somewhat erroneous,if often tangential, remarks or assertions, mostly still reecting hausmansapparently unquestioning support for the mainstream tradition. forexample, it is suggested that i offer economists a false dichotomy. either they can accept a view of science as exclusively the search for excep- tionless regularities among observable events ...,orthey can accept critical realism (hausman, 1998 ,p.204). now what is false about this dichotomy? afterall critical realism argues that the world is open and structured in com- plex ways. it is because it is so that event regularities whether strict or partial(i.e., demi-regularities) canbe brought about under certain conditions. critical realism thus entertains a priori the possibility of event regularities of varying degrees of strictness; it all d epends. mainstream (deductivist) eco- nomic modelling, in contrast, requires that strict event regularities (includ-ing those covered by well dened probabilistic laws) are ubiquitous. so thechoice, the dichotomy, is indeed between science being or not being exclu- sively the search for exceptionless regularities among observable events ,between the reductionist claims of dedu ctivism and non-reductionist claims of critical realism. hausman supposes that the thesis in question, that economists should abandon deductivism (as a universalising claim) for critical realism, some-how follows from a controversial metaphysics , which, 1) precisely mapsdistinctions in metaphysical categories onto those between observable and

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 451 unobservables, and, 2) supposes that experiences and aspects of mecha- nisms cannot themselves be events. i am not sure why hausman supposesthat either set of claims is or would be defended. i personally have neverentertained either and would not wish to (although i do not deny, of course,that ex posteriori social structures, powers, mechanisms, processes andtendencies, etc., are found to be in large part unobservable). hausman further asks: what is gained by assimilating questions con- cerning the status of, for example, social norms (presumably amongst other social structures) to questions concerning the existence of electrons? ( 1998 , p.205). but as i have already indicated there is no assimilating going on; these just are the same sort of questions. both reect the postulating ofthe existence of some disputed kind of entity; and both sets of postulationsrequire investigating. hausmans purp ose in all this seems to be a misguided attempt to reduce all aspects of all s tructures and mechanisms to the level of everyday commonsense understanding as if thereby all aspects can some- how be treated as free of realist or anti-realist controversy. hausman also includes a brief discussion of rms and the supposed law of diminishing returns intended to demonstrate that lawsons emphasison realism distracts attention from the real issues ( 1998 ,p.205). but in this hausman appears to suppose that my critique of economics, if appliedtodiscussions of the rm and returns to inputs , would amount to little more than a suggestion that more variables or factors should be included inthe analysis ( ...the law of diminishing returns ...captures only one factor that generates the complicated phenomena observed. one does not havetobe a critical realist to recognize this crucial point ...(hausman, 1998 , p.205)). the fact that i am arguing that the social world, including rms , is in part constituted by intrinsically dynamic (and mostly unobservable)highly internally related structures of powers or capacities, etc., irreducibletoany actual realization appears to be less than fully appreciated. hausman also makes reference to other fundamental principles of eco- nomics ( 1998 ,p.211) that i do not have space here to discuss. but my gen- eral observation is that in all such examples, like that of the supposed lawof diminishing returns just noted, the constituents of economics are beingtoouncritically presumed. indeed, from my own perspective a most striking feature of the contribution of hausman (and of various other methodol-ogists) is a failure to recognize the limited relevance to the social realm ofprinciples of the sort identied. and this failure can be explained, it seems tome, only by a continuing refusal to question the relevance of the whole mainstream (deductivist) tradition; to ignore, in particular, its continuingpractice of ontological neglect.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 452 tony lawson concluding remarks hausmans recent ( 1998 )economics and philosophy article contains a num- ber of claims to the effect that certain questions or issues are, or are not, relevant to economics. it seems that behind each such claim is a presumption that, in order to qualify as relevant or pressing , a question or issue mustcurrently be a focus of attention or a topic of debate amongst (mainstream)economists. this line of reasoning appears itself to be underpinned by amore general presumption that economics reduces to what most economists,including economic methodologists, currently do. myownrather different starting point has been the (widely recognized) phenomenon that modern economics mostly fails to illuminate the world inwhich we live and, indeed, is in a state of disarray, coupled with a convictionthat we ought to do something about it, and specically to seek to replace, or at least supplement, dominant strategies with others that are rather morecapable of being explanatorily successful and useful. addressing such mat-ters seems to me to be as relevant or pressing as any issue facing modern economics. central to my project, then, has been the need to identify the cause of the disciplines failings. and i have certainly found that the problems turnnot just on matters of current concern to modern economists, includingmethodologists, but at least as much on matters for which far too littleconcern is shown. specically, i have argued that the problems of the modern discipline relate fundamentally to ontological neglect. in consequence, myownendeavour to help improve things has involved explicit and sustained ontological elaboration focusing on implications for explanatory conductin the social realm. others have contributed in similar fashion. the result is a project that has been not only more explicitly and system- atically oriented to ontological in vestigation in economics than most other projects, being concerned indeed to e laborate a social metaphysics for social science, but also found to sustain a conception of social life that is far richer,that contains signicantly more depth , than most competing conceptionsin economics. the conception defended is likely to be contentious, of course. and, whatever the worth of this project and its results, it is the case that itscontribution will always be practically conditioned, fallible, partial and likely transient. but whatever else might or might not be claimed of the project i have been discussing, i think it clearly isthe case that if we question what is distinctive about it in the context of modern economics, a realist orientation,in the senses indicated throughout, has got more than a little to do with it.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 453 refere nces fleetwood, s. 1999. critical realism in economics: development and debate .r o u tledge. hausman, d. m. 1992. the inexact and separate science of economics .cambridge uni- versity press. hausman, d. m. 1998. problems with realism in economics . economics and philosophy , 14:185213. lawson, t ony. 1997a. economics and reality .r o u tledge. lawson, t ony. 1997b. economics as a distinct social science? on the nature, scope and method of economics . economie appliqu ee,l:535.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 twenty-five feminism and economics julie a. nelson julie a. nelson (1956 ) is currently a senior research associate with the global development and environment institute at tufts university. she received her ph.d. in economics from the university of wisconsinmadison. her work has includedmethodological reections on feminist economics and empirical research concern-ing families and household consumption. nelson is currently an associate editoroffeminist economics .her most recent book is economics for humans . an arti cle in the chronicle of higher education of june 30, 1993, reported, twodecades after it began redening debates in many other disciplines, feminist thinking seems suddenly to have arrived in economics. many economists, of course, did not happen to be in the station when this train arrived, belated as it might be. many who might have heard rumor of itscoming have not yet learned just what arguments are involved or what it promises for the renement of the profession. the purpose of this essay istoprovide a low-cost way of gaining some familiarity. 1 most people associate feminism with a political program, which of course it includes. while there are now many varieties of feminism, they all shareaconcern with remedying the disadvantages historically born by women. suchac oncern has been manifested within the discipline of economics in the form of efforts to encourage the advancement of women within theprofession (for example, by the committee on the status of women inthe economic profession) and sometimes by the application of economicanalysis for feminist ends. less familiar to many economists, however, are theimplications for economics of recent feminist theorizing about sexism and journal of economic perspectives ,vol. 9 (spring 1995): 13148. reprinted with the permission of the american economic association. iparticularly thank robin bartlett, joan combs durso, marianne ferber, nancy folbre, gloria helfand, linda lucas, constance newman, jean shackelford, carl shapiro, myra strober, and timothy taylor for helpful suggestions. 454

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 455 science. feminist scholars have documented how beliefs about gender that is, beliefs about the characteristics and social roles of men and women havebeen important on an intellectual as well as social plane. recent feministtheory leads to questioning of many basic assumptions and values thatundergird current economic practice. feminist theory raises questions about the adequacy of economic prac- tice not because economics is in general too objective, but because it isnot objective enough. various value-laden and partial and, in particular,masculine-gendered perspectives on subject, model, method, and peda-gogy have heretofore been mistakenly perceived as value free and impartialin economics, as in other scientic disciplines. traditionally, male activi-ties have taken center stage as subject matter, while models and methodshave reected a historically and psychologically masculine pattern of valuingautonomy and detachment over dependence and connection. the alternative suggested here is not, however, a feminine economics in which masculine biases are replaced by feminine ones, nor a femaleeconomics in which economics by or about women is done differently thaneconomics by or about men. the alternative described in this article is animprovement of all of economics, whether done by female or male practi-tioners. gender and disciplinary values ifone believes that the current denitions and methods of economics come from outside of human communities perhaps mandated by divine inter-vention, or descending via a friedmanesque helicopter drop then of course the idea that such standards could be gender-biased will seem nonsensical.butifweallow that economic practice is human practice, developed and rened within human communities, then the possibility must be admitted that human limitations, interests, and perceptual biases will have effects onthe culture of economics. the feminist analysis of economics that will bediscussed here starts from the premise that economics, like any science, issocially constructed. social constructionism should not be mistaken for aclaim that anything goes or that there are no standards of truth or relia-bility. it simply recognizes that such standards are determined from withinaparticular scientic community, not from without. how,then, might gender inuence economics? while women were his- torically excluded from the economics community, some caution is rec- ommended in moving from the observation of womens exclusion toconclusions about the mechanisms by which gender biases take root. it

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 456 julie a. nelson is necessary to clarify here that feminist scholars make a subtle but impor- tant distinction between sexand gender. sex ,a st h et e r m is generally used in feminist scholarship, refers to biological differences between males andfemales. gender ,onthe other hand, refers to the associations, stereotypes, and social patterns that a culture constructs on the basis of actual or per-ceived differences between men and women. womens lesser average brain weight than men, for example, is a biological characteristic. the nineteenth- century interpretation of this fact as implying that women are therefore less rational is an example of a social belief, that is, a construction of gender (bleier, 1986 ). most feminist scholars see masculine bias in science as primarily an issue of gender, not of sex. the entrance of more women into scientic disciplinesis seen as contributing to the transformation of the disciplines, not becausewomen bring something different to the elds by virtue of femaleness, but rather because the illumination of gender biases at the level of the socialstructure of science makes gender biases at other levels more visible as well. 2 tosay that contemporary economics is masculine, then, is to say that it reects social beliefs about masculinity, not that it reects the malenessof its traditional practitioners (keller, 1986 ). t o say that a less masculine- biased economics would be more adequat eistosaythat social beliefs about economics must change and that economics would be enriched by a diver-sity of practitioners, not that economics must be practiced by eunuchs orneuters. the analysis of links between modern western social beliefs about gen- der and about science was the accomplishment of groundbreaking work byfeminist scholars starting in the 1980s (bordo, 1987 ;harding, 1986 ;k e l l e r , 1985 ;merchant, 1980 ). objectivity, separation, logical consistency, individ- ual accomplishment, mathematics, abstraction, lack of emotion, and scienceitself have long been culturally associated with rigor, hardness and mas-culinity. at the same time, subjectivity, connection, intuitive understand-ing, cooperation, qualitative analysis, concreteness, emotion, and nature have often been associated with weakness, softness and femininity. suchassociations were sometimes explicit in the language used by the early sci-entists to dene their endeavor. henry oldenburg, an early secretary of thebritish royal society, stated that the intent of the society was to raise a masculine philosophy ...whereby the mind of man may be ennobled with the knowledge of solid truths (keller, 1985 ,p.52). simple recognition that the characteristics most highly valued in eco- nomics have a particularly masculine gender association does not, how-ever, suggest a unique response for scholars concerned with the quality of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 457 economic practice. one response might be to endorse this association so that wecan go on doing as we have always done. if this is masculine economics, so be it. the only alternative to masculine economics, our usual way ofthinking about gender tells us, would be emasculated, impotent economics. another response might be to turn the tables and seek to replace hard, objective, active, androcentric economics with soft, subjective, passive gyno-centric economics. one might focus on cooperation, for example, instead of competition and eschew all quantitative methods in favor of qualitativeones. while this might be appealing to those who consider modern eco-nomics to be responsible for all the ills in the world, such a response merely trades one set of biases for another. athird response, particularly associated with the intellectual currents of postmodernism, might be to deconstruct the dualisms on which moderndenitions of economics depend. in deconstructionist theory, all humanprojects are simply texts or discourses to which techniques of literacy criti-cism can be applied. in this view, neither the distinction science nonsciencenor masculine feminine reects any nonlinguistic underlying reality. thisapproach, however, yields little guidance about how to judge the quality ofscientic practice. 3 afourth approach is adopted in this article. it does not require endorsing one side or the other of the masculine feminine dualism, nor forgoing eval-uation. the key to this approach lies in an unlinking of our judgments aboutvalue that is, about what is meritorious or less meritorious in economicpractice from our perceptions of gender. the notion that masculine economics is good economics depends on ageneral cultural association of masculinity with superiority and feminin- ity with inferiority, or, in other words, a mental linking of value (supe-rior inferior) and gender (masculine feminine) dualisms. any reader who might question the asymmetry of this linking, preferring, perhaps, to thinkof gender differences in terms of a more benign complementarity, shouldponder some of the more obvious manifestations of asymmetry in the socialdomain. rough tomboy girls are so cially acceptable and even praised, but woetothe gentle-natured boy who is labeled a sissy; a woman may wear pants, but a man may not wear a skirt. the sexist association of femininitywith lesser worth implicit in such judgments, it should be noted, is not a matter of isolated personal beliefs but rather a matter of cultural and evencognitive habit. research on human cognition suggests that dualisms such as superior inferior and masculine feminine play an essential role in structuring ourunderstanding (lakoff and johnson, 1980 ;n e lson, forthcoming ,c h . 1).

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 458 julie a. nelson human cognition is not limited to such simple two-way associations, how- ever. consider the different interpretations we can make if we think of gender and value, instead of as marking out the same space, as operating in orthogonal dimensions. then we can think of there being both valuable andharmful aspects to qualies culturally associated with masculinity, as wellas both valuable and harmful aspects to traits associated with femininity(nelson, 1992 ). consider, for example, the idea that a hard economics is clearly prefer- able to a soft economics. this judgment relies on an association of hard-ness with valuable, masculine-associated strength, and softness with inferior,feminine-associated weakness. however, hardness may also mean rigidity,just as softness may also imply exibility. a pursuit of masculine hardnessthat spurns all association with femininity (and hence with exibility) canlead to rigidity, just as surely as a pursuit of feminine softness (withoutcorresponding strength) leads to weakness. there is no benet to special- ization on the side of one gender: neither rigidity nor weakness, the twoextremes of hardness and softness, is desirable. there is benet, however, from exploiting complementarity. strength tempered with exibility wouldyield a balanced and resilient economics. this is just one abstract exam- ple of how new thinking about gender could change how we think aboutdiscipline; many more concrete examples follow. four aspects of economics applying the feminist scholarship on science to economics suggests that the criteria by which we judge good economics have been biased, and that theuse of less-biased criteria of evaluation would lead to a more adequate prac-tice. consider the biases that arise in four different aspects of economics:model, methods, topics, and pedagogy. while critiques and new directionsconcerning the subject matter of economics and teaching may be familiar to some economists, the more subtle areas of model and method will be dis-cussed rst since these have implications for the broadest range of economicpractice. economic models atthe center of mainstream economic modeling is the character of the rational, autonomous, self-interested agent, successfully making optimiz- ing choices subject to exogenously imposed constraints. in adopting thisconception of human nature, economists have carried out the suggestion of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 459 thomas hobbes (as cited in benhabib, 1987 ), who wrote, let u sc onsider men...as if but even now sprung out of the earth, and suddenly, like mush- rooms, come to full maturity, without all kind of engagement to each other. economic man springs up fully formed, with preferences fully developed, and is fully active and self-contained (england, 1993 ). as in our robinson crusoe stories, he has no childhood or old age, no dependence on anyone, and no responsibility for anyone but himself. the environment has no effecton him, but rather is merely the passive material over which his rationalityhas play. economic man interacts in society without being inuenced bysociety: his mode of interaction is through an ideal market in which pricesform the only, and only necessary, form of communication. this is not to say that all practicing economists believe that humans are no more than homo economicus (though there are a few true believers), but only that this model of human behavior is perceived as being the most useful andmost rigorously objective starting point for economic analysis. consider,however, the gendered biases implicit in taking the mushroom man asrepresentative of what is important about human beings. humans do not simply spring out of the earth. humans are born of women, nurtured andcared for as dependent children and when aged or ill, socialized into familyand community groups, and are perpetually dependent on nourishmentand a home to sustain life. these aspects of human life, whose neglect is often justied by the argument that they are unimportant, or intellectuallyuninteresting, or merely natural, are, not just coincidentally, the areas of lifethought of as womens work. one must be careful here, again, to draw a distinction between anal- ysis at the level of sex (biological distinction) and analysis at the levelof gender (social beliefs). an interpretation that some might draw fromthe above contrast might be that next to homo economicus todescribe mens autonomous, self-interested behavior, we need a femina economica todescribe womens connected, other-oriented behavior. such an endorse- ment of separate spheres for men and women is, however, quite opposed toafeminist analysis that sees the gender distinctions as socially constructed rather than biologically determined. homo economicus may not be a good description of women, but neither is he a good description of men. both theautonomous, rational, detached, masculine projection and the dependent,emotional, connected, feminine one are equally mythical and distorting.mens tra ditional facade of autonomy has always been propped up by the background work of mothers and wives; to believe that women are passiverequires turning a blind eye to the activity of womens lives. what is needed is a conception of behavior that does not confuse gender with judgments

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 460 julie a. nelson about value, nor confuse gender with se x. what is needed is a conception ofhuman behavior that can encompass both autonomy and dependence, individuation and relation, reason and emotion, as they are manifested in economic agents of either sex. feminists need not reinvent the wheel while looking for ways of building more satisfactory models. one example of a richer model of human behaviorthat is probably familiar to many economists is george akerlof and janetye l l en s ( 1988 )theory of efciency wages as based on fairness. in their model, agents are not hyperrational, isolat ed monads, but rather human beings capable of emotions such as concern for fairness or jealousy (p. 45) andvery concer ned with their sphere of personal connections. as they point out, the idea that workers concern with fairness affects their job performance isin fact borne out by empirical studies done by psychologists guided by equitytheory and sociologists guided by social exchange theory. in suggesting thatwages may be inuenced by fairness considerations, rather than purely bymarket forces, such a model contributes toward explaining the persistenceof non-market-clearing wages and the existence of unemployment. similar analysis has suggested that notions of fairness play an important role in the setting of prices in product markets (kahneman, knetsch, and thaler, 1986 ). lee levins ( 1995 )theory of investment also borrows freely from psychology and sociology to gain insight into economic phenomenon.levinsuggests that keynes notion of animal spirits can be eshed out using theories of convention, rumor, social comparison, fad, cognitive dissonance,and contagion theory borrowed from these other disciplines. nancy folbre(1994a ), amartya sen ( 1977 )and robert frank ( 1988 )areeconomists who have also explored richer models of human economic behavior, both indi-vidual and collective. readers may think of other examples. a degree of care must be maintained, of course, in moving away from the simple rational- choice model or borrowing from other disciplines: overthrowing a model of autonomous choice only to end up with, for example, a model of puresocial determinism would lead to no great improvement. but feminist anal-ysis suggests that the current neglect of social and emotional dimensionsof human behavior should be considered a serious limitation, rather than asign of rigor. the question of economic models overlaps with the question of how economics is to be dened as a discipline. as akerlof and y ellens ( 1988 ) model explains a particular macroeconomic phenomenon in an empiricallysupported way, it would seem to clearly qualify as an economic model. y etsome see economics as dened by thehomo economicus model. for them, models like that of akerlof and y ellen fail to qualify, being too soft or too

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 461 messy, or perhaps too sociological. gary becker ( 1976 ,p.5), for example, has argued that it is the model of individual choice in markets that is the distinguishing characteristic of economics. robert lucas ( 1987 ,p.108) has stated that the assumptions of rational choice modeling provide the onlyengine of truth we have in economics. the feminist analysis suggests that beckers and lucas approaches are not, as they are often taken, statementsof demand for high rigor, but rather are demands that androcentric biasesbe indulged. suchad enition of economics according to (a restrictive) model, rather than subject matter, has been an effective rhetorical strategy for cuttingoff alternative views (strassmann, 1993 ). one might take the growth and acceptance of much of the new classical macroeconomics modeling pro-gram, protected by lucas denition of the discipline, as a case in point. but such a strategy can retain its effectiveness only so long as the association ofmasculinity with high value has emotional and cognitive power. the fem-inist analysis suggests that there should not be just one economic model,but rather many economic models, depending on the usefulness of variousmodeling techniques in the various applications. many of these models willstill emphasize individual choice and purposive behavior, but some will not.toargue that economists should continue to specialize in a single specic type of model, because that is how we have been trained, is to argue that sunk costs should play a role in determining current prot-maximizing choices afallacy we usually try to debunk in our undergraduate students sopho- more year. an efcient business certainly would not allow an employee tocontinue practicing a skill that yields low returns because of an oversupply or a changing market, just because the skill was difcult and time consumingto acq uire. while feminist economics does not impose feminist policy conclusions on economic research, it can be noted that such a broadening of economicmodeling opens new opportunities in the analysis of labor market discrim-ination. within a model of rational, autonomous individual behavior andperfectly clearing markets, womens lower earnings and exclusion from cer-tain professions tan be explained only by appeal to extra-market sources,such as womens career and education decisions or the amount of effortwomen put forth (for a review see bergmann, 1986 ). employer discrimi- nation cannot persist in competitive markets, goes beckers story, since dis-crimination is a taste that is costly to indulge. discriminators will hence beoutcompeted by rms that make prot-maximizing choices. comparableworthisapolitical rather than an economic issue, it is sometimes said, since the idea that occupations held largely by women could be systematically

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 462 julie a. nelson underpaid is in violation of the thesis that wages are determined by mar- ketforces. the inuence of such positions is not based in the empiri- cal support they have garnered, however: the strength of their appeal toeconomists lies only in their consistency with the narrow choice-theoreticmodel. broader models that include the social and emotional factors ignored in standard neoclassical analysis make room for discrimination as a potentialissue. ifemployers are themselves subject to widespread and systematic social pressures, for example, nondiscrimination might be a taste that is costly to indulge. employers may meet not only with rebellion from their other work-ers but with ostracism from their peers and perhaps even from their friendsand family when they violate widespread gender and racial norms in hiringor compensation (strober and arnold, 1987 ). if wages reect perceptions of fairness, as akerlof and y ellen ( 1988 )haveargued, then perceptions of the relative worth of mens and womens work is quite relevant to wage determi- nation. if, as feminists argue, certain traits and jobs traditionally associatedwith women have been systematically undervalued, it may be perceived as fair to pay less for these skills (england, 1992 ). the feminist insight into economic modeling does not prescribe in advance that injustice will be found in every study of the labor market.itdoes require, however, that we not dismiss the possibility that wages may depend on factors beyond marginal products simply because the models weuse are blinded by their own assumptions. economic methods while models of individual rational choice could conceivably be expressed and analyzed in a purely verbal manner, it seems almost a tautology to saythat in the discipline of economics, quality in method is identied primarilywith mathematical rigor. strict adherence to rules of logic and mathematics, formalization in the presentation of assump tions and models, sophistication in the application of econometric techniques these are the factors, in manypeoples minds, that set economics apart from softer elds like sociology orpolitical science. use of formal and mathematical methods (particularly in the form of constrained maximization) is also often presumed to assure theobjectivity of economic results. abstract and highly formalized analysis isoften valued over concrete and detailed empirical work, for the logical purityof its proofs and for its context-free generality. while good writing and verbalanalysis do not go entirely unrewarded, they are usually considered to belargely auxiliary to the real analysis.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 463 feminist scholarship suggests that such narrow views of knowledge and rationality are holdovers from a crisis about masculinity during the early years of the development of modern science, particularly manifested in the ascendancy of cartesian philosophy (bordo, 1987 ;easlea, 1980 ). far from protecting economics against biases, such a concentration on toughness and detachment hog-ties our methods of analysis. emphasis on being hard,logical, scientic, and precise has served a valuable purpose, it is true, inguarding against analysis that is weak, illogical, unscientic, and vague. butif these are the only virtues we value in our practice, we are easy prey to other vices. emphasis on masculine hardness without exibility can, as discussed above, turn into rigidity. emphasis on logic, without sufcient attentiontograsping the big picture, can lead to empty, out-of-touch exercises in pointless deduction. scientic progress without attention to human valuescan serve inhuman ends. arguments that have given up all richness for thesake of precision end up being very thin. including both masculine- andfeminine-identied positive qualities, on the other hand, makes possible apractice that is exible, attentive to context, humanistic, and rich as well asstrong, logical, scientic, and precise. feminist economists are not the only economists to voice dissatisfaction with the narrow strictures put on knowledge seeking in economics, that as a consequence leave economists inade quately educated and inadequately practiced in skills of richer and more substantive analysis. while feministtheorists offer a unique explanation for the psychological and social tenacityof the cartesian view (and link it to failures in areas of model, topics, andpedagogy as well), feminist economists hardly need to start from scratch inenvisioning a more adequate methodological toolbox. donald mccloskey,for example, has written extensively on the possibilities for improvement ofrhetorical standards within the profession. mccloskey ( 1993 )argues that feminine-associated argumentation by metaphor and story must be givenequal scientic prestige with masculine-associated argumentation by factand logic. as a practical matter, he has even published a short guide toimproved writing (mccloskey, 1987 ). the commission on graduate education in economics (cogee) of the american economic association recently expressed concern about overem- phasis on context-free analysis. its report noted a fear that economics grad-uate programs may be turning out a generation with too many idiot savants skilled in technique but innocent of real economic issues (krueger, et al.,1991 ,pp.104445). while this report set up the problem as one of an imbalance between (mathematical, technical) methods on the one hand

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 464 julie a. nelson and substance on the other, with the methodological approach itself left unchallenged, such an argument seems to suggest that knowledge of facts,institutional information, data, r eal-world issues, applications and policy problems (p. 1046) occurs by direct absorption. y et careful and systematicseeking out of information and good nonformal reasoning about real eco-nomic issues can only be accomplished through mastery of correspondingskills, such as (to start with) library research methods and techniques ofcritical reading. if it is recognized that such skills are just as valid, and justas teachable, as formal and abstract techniques, then the problem indeedincludes the issue of balance in methods. as a practical matter, the cogeereport includes a number of specic suggestions about prerequisites, course syllabi, content, assignments, etc. that would begin to move graduate depart-ments somewhat toward educating students to become more competent inanalyzing actual economic problems. calls for increased attention to the nuts and bolts of empirical work bydistinguished economists such as thomas mayer ( 1993 )and lawrence summers ( 1991 )arealso calls for changes in the value system of economics that feminists can join and endorse. economists tend to be highly skilledin mathematical and statistical theory. however, we generally demonstratefar less skill in other aspects of scientic empirical work like the seeking outof new data sources, the improvement of data collection, responsible datacleaning and quality evaluation, replicatio n, sensitivity testing, proper dis- tinction between statistical and substantive signicance, and data archiving(for example, dewald, thursby, and anderson, 1986 ). empirical work char- acterized by such a continual renement of abstract theory, accompanied byan egregious neglect of concrete detail, has been described by mayer ( 1993 , p.132) as driving a mercedes down a cow track. while a few journals and funding agencies have in recent years sought to raise professional standardsby,for example, requiring sensitivity tests and archiving of data, much more could be done by journal editors, funding bodies, and dissertation advisors toencourage more efforts in these directions. graduate studies committees could do more to provide the sorts of course work and experience in which good technique could be learned. the feminist critique suggests that theremay be much to be gained by decreased use of the technique of detachedmusing (bergmann, 1987a )and increased use of the technique of hob- nobbing with ones data (strober, 1987 ). value judgments attached to hard versus soft data also deserve reex- amination. economists skepticism about asking people about the motivesbehind their behavior is so strong that alan blinder ( 1991 )d e v o t e dafull section in a recent piece on price stickiness simply to justify the use of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 465 such interview survey data. judged by a standard of cartesian proof, such evidence may be inadmissible. but judged by a broader and more practical standard of learning about economic functioning, such data can be seen topotentially contribute important in formation. a recent conference of the international association for feminist economics, for example, included presentations by a historian and a sociologist on the techniques of doingoral history studies. economists who overcome their prejudice in this areamay be surprised at the sophistication in technique and the attention giventoissues of validity and replicability demonstrated by those trained in such soft and qualitative methods. personal experience should also not be discounted among ways in which weconsciously or not gather data. it has been a matter of some ironic comment among feminist economists, for example, how what often really seems to matter in convincing a male colleague of the existence of sex dis-crimination is not studies with 10,000 objective observations, but ratheraparticular single direct observation: the experience of his own daughter. the idea that ones personal, subjective position and opinions could inuence the outcome of ones scientic work is, of course, anathema tothose who believe that objectivity in scientic pursuits can be attained onlybythe cool detachment of the researcher from the subject of study, or that objectivity is assured by an individuals strict adherence to particular meth-ods of inquiry. such a notion of objectivity is considered in the feministanalysis (as well as in much contemporary philosophy of science) to be onemore outgrowth of the cartesian illusion. part of the practice of striving forobjectivity, in fact, should be an examination of how the things that onebelieves from ones own experience may inuence ones research. sandraharding ( 1995 )calls the sort of objectivity in which one recognizes ones standpoint strong objectivity, as contrasted to weak objectivity in whichthe issue of perspective is kept under wraps. amartya sen ( 1992 ,p.1)sim- ilarly argues that objectivity begins with knowledge based on positionalobservation. the movement from subjective views to (strong) objectivitycomes not through a sharp separation of the researcher from the object of study, but rather through a connection of the researcher to a larger criti-cal community. according to feminist philosopher helen longino ( 1990 , p.79), the objectivity of individuals ...consists in their participation in the collective give-and-take of critical discussion and not in some special rela- tion (of detachment, hardheadedness) they may bear to their observations.while concern with the reliability of results is still of prime importance, the criteria that guide research are internal to the community of researchers,not external. formalization, rather than reecting the height of objectivity,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 466 julie a. nelson is simply seen as one tool in the toolbox. in the words of knut wicksell (quoted in georgescu-roegen, 1971 ,p.341), the role of logic and abstrac- tion is to facilitate the argument, clarify the results, and so guard againstpossible faults of reasoning that is all. economic topics aprototypical economic article uses an economic model, economic meth- ods, and is on an economic topic. benecial expansions in the rst two areaswerediscussed above; the last consideration is, however, crucial as well. a broad denition of the core topic of economics to which most economistsmight agree is that of markets. economics is often dened as the study of pro-cesses by which things goods, services, nancial assets are exchanged. by this denition, most of the traditional nonmarket activities of women careof the home, children, sick and elderly relatives, and so on have been con-sidered noneconomic and therefore inappropriate subjects for economicresearch. families, in fact, often seem to disappear entirely from the world of economists. consider this textbook discussion: the unit of analysis in eco-nomics is the individual ...[although] individuals group together to form collective organizations such as corporations, labor unions, and govern- ments (gwartney, stroup, and clark, 1985 ,p .3 ) . 4families are, apparently, toounimportant to mention. the most notable exceptions to this neglect, of course, come from gary becker and the other so-called new home economists and from morerecent developments in the application of game theory to the family. the existence of these literatures is something of a double-edged sword to femi- nists. on one hand, they do bring into mainstream journals some discussionof family issues. however, they conform strictly to the narrow standards ofmethod and model discussed earlier, and it is probably only by these criteriathat they hang on to their economic credentials. moreover, it is trouble-some to feminists that this work has often assumed or endorsed traditionalexpectations about the sexes. while becker has indeed developed models of family interactions, he, as barbara bergmann ( 1987b ,pp.13233) has put it, explains, justies, and even glories role differentiation by sex ...to say that the new home economists are not feminist in their orientationwould be as much of an understatement as to say that bengal tigers are not vegetarians. while some debate has gone on about beckers models, and the possibility of using individualistic rational-choice models for feminist ends, such battlestake place at the margins of economics. the expectation on the part of many

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 467 economists that feminists will or should concentrate on debating becker may primarily serve as a handy way to avoid engagement with feminist critique.suchav iew limits feminist critique to a eld that is perhaps safely distant from ones own. while families are economic to becker to the extent that they can be modeled in terms of choices and mar kets, families have traditionally been economic to women in a much more direct sense. many womens eco- nomic security historically was, and to some extent still is, far less dependenton their own earnings than on whether or not they marry well. further,while economists and census takers have wafed back and forth on whetherunpaid housekeeping should be classied as leisure or work (folbre, 1991 ), the women scrubbing the sink rarely entertained any doubt. drawing the distinction about what is economic and what is not at the household door leads increasingly to odd dead ends and bifurcationsin economic analysis. why should childcare, elder care, and care of the sickbe economic when provided by markets (or sometimes government), butnot worthy of study by economists when done in private homes? ratherthan using marketization as the criterion for demarcating economics orusing the rational choice model, as discussed abov eab r o a d e rd e nition of economics as concerned with provisioning could delineate a subjectmatter without using sexist assumptions about what is and what is notimportant (nelson, 1993b ). adam smith, for example, dened economics not as simply about choice and exchange, but also as about the production and distribution of all ofthe necessaries and conveniences of life, placing emphasis on the thingsthat human beings need to survive and ourish. these things may includeactivities such as meaningful work, as well as goods and services such asfood and health care. while some goods and services may be freely chosenbyadult individuals acting in markets, many are provided to individuals bytheir parents during childhood or by other family members. they can also be provided as gifts or through community or governmental programs.the distribution of many necessaries and conveniences is also stronglyinuenced by tradition and coercion. suchad enition of economics as concerned with the realm of provi- sioning breaks down the usual distinction between economic (primarilymarket-oriented) activities and policies on the one hand, and familial orsocial activities and policies on the other. the absence of entries for house-hold production in the national income and product accounts illustratesthe way in which such a bifurcation has structured economic analysis, andthe concern of many feminists about this neglect is relatively well known

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 468 julie a. nelson (for example, waring, 1988 ). the priority to be given to a project of inclu- sion of household activities in gross domest ic product is, however, actually somewhat controversial among feminists, with some arguing that increased emphasis on housework would only serve to glorify the homemaker role,and with many concerned that monetary gures would be downward biaseddue to the low value currently given to activities like childcare (folbre,1994b ). questions can also be raised about the importance to be given to the gdp numbers themselves. feminists may join with others in criticizingthe methodological reductionism of frequently using such a crude mea-sure of market and governmental economic activity as a yardstick for eco-nomic welfare. multidimensional measures, which might include measuresof distribution and sustainability, and measures of human outcomes such aseducational attainment and health (nussbaum and sen, 1993 )would form amore adequate basis for economic analysis and national policy-making and evaluation. accounting for the division of labor and of goods withinthe household, for example, has been particularly important in feministworkon development economics, economies in transition, and economies undergoing structural adjustment (sen, 1985 ;bakker, 1994 ). less well known than the gdp critique is the concern of many feminists about adequate attention to investment in children and the question of whobears the costs of such investment (folbre, 1994a ). programs to improve child nutrition or preschool and primary education, for example, are usu- ally thought of as social programs, merely frosting on the scal cake, ratherthan as economic programs, designed to advance investment in human capi-tal. programs to increase the quality of paid childcare arrangements are oftenthought of as consumption goods for parents, rather than as investmentsin children and in necessary infrastructure for parental (and particularly,givenstereotyped patterns of work distribution within families, mothers) participation in the life of the community. standard economic analysis andpedagogy tend to reinforce such trivialization: recall that the mythical eco-nomic mushroom man springs up without any need for provisioning byothers in his youth, and recall that the actual work by women in historicallyproviding such direct provisioning does not count as economic. consider, as a specic example, the treatment of the subject of human capital in a standard labor economics textbook. it does not begin with a focuson nutrition, socialization, and informal and formal education of childrenwithin families and public schools, but rather with the college choice decision of the young adult (ehrenberg and smith, 1994 ). while there is, of course, some pedagogical benet in designing textbook examples to appeal to theimmediate interests of the students, there seems to be no pedagogical reason

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 469 tofocus so narrowly on higher education. when i teach this subject, i nd it helpful to add readings about earlier human capital development and to ask students to reect back on the creation of their abilities and aspirations,from the very start of their lives. the question of topics cannot be unlinked from the earlier questions raised about models and methods. consider how biases in models and methods have distorted the development of one research program that fromthe start has been concerned with household issues: the economics literatureon household equivalence scales. such scales adjust measures of householdincome for differences in household size and composition. these scalesare in daily policy use in, for example, setting equitable levels of socialbenets across households of different size, as well as being frequently usedbyresearchers in studies of income distribution. the economic literature on household equivalence scales has, however, moved further and further away from questions of policy relevance (nelson,1993a ). first, while policy applications are often concerned centrally with the welfare of children (for example, in setting levels for aid to families withdependent children), forcing the question into a utility-theoretic frame-work(in which the scale is interpreted as a ratio of expenditure functions) has led to household welfare being generally modeled as the welfare of theadults. some of the most highly regarded models imply that adults will, in fact, substitute away from goods consumed largely by children when they are present. second, while early empirical estimation of equivalence scalesdepended largely on prescriptive budget studies that listed how much eachtype of household would require for food, rent, and so on, more recent empirical practice has been characterized by greater subtlety and sophis-tication. unfortunately, the estimation of scales using large-scale demandsystem regressions informed by specic utility-theoretic models, which wasfor a period the norm, has for the most part turned out to be fundamentallyunderidentied (since the same demand equations may be consistent withany number of expenditure functions). while many economists have followed these trends to greater reliance on choice theory and advanced econometrics, a recent piece by trudi renwick and barbara bergmann ( 1993 )g i v e so n ei l l ustration of what can be accom- plished when the focus stays closer to the policy question, with less allegiancetoparticular models and methods. renwick and bergmanns formulation of basic needs budgets for households with different compositions fol-low the earlier prescriptive budgets approach, and is updated for changingtimes by the addition of childcare expenditures. while technically unso-phisticated, one may actually learn more about costs from such direct (if

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 470 julie a. nelson admittedly approximate and prescriptive) evidence, than from more tech- nically sophisticated but unfocused and indirect techniques. economic pedagogy adiscipline of economics dened around a formal rational-choice model, with perhaps a few facts delivered on the side, can perhaps be adequately perpetuated by a style of teaching that focuses purely on the transfer of presetknowledge. if economics is dened more broadly, however, such an approachmay not be adequate. fostering the ability to think critically, analytically,and creatively about economic issues requires a different pedagogy. whilesuch a way of thinking may be as teachable as current methods, as arguedabove, it may not be necessarily as easily teachable, nor teachable by the same teaching methods nor perhaps even to exactly the same students. feminist economists suggest that not only the content of economics courses, but also the teaching style used could undergo a benecial transfor- mation (strober, 1987 ;bergmann, 1987a ;b a r tlett and feiner, 1992 ;shack- elford, 1992 ). some emphasize the use of experimental learning and labo- ratorysessions in which students work with simulations, collect their own interview data, and or analyze data, to give students more chance to doeconomics and work out the answers to questions (bartlett and king,1990 ). some suggest that feminist pedagogy requires a different relationship between the professor and students, with less distance and more dialoguebetween the professor and students, and also among students. some suggestthat explicit attention be paid to the affective aspects of learning (strober,1987 ). feminists are, of course, not the only educators interested in more inter- active and cooperative learning; to many educators, this is just good peda-gogy, as demonstrated by studies of how students actually learn. feministtheorists are more likely, however, to see the resistance to pedagogical reformas being rooted in general cultural associations of gender and value. thesepedagogical insights are intended to apply across the curriculum, not justtowomen and the economy courses. active learning techniques could improve the practice of even the more familiar forms of economic analysis.anability to think critically is arguably as important in making good judg- ments about the choice of statistical methods or the use of signicance tests,for example, as it is in writing an essay on antidiscrimination policies. one point of interest to many feminists is the way in which economic ped- agogy may subtly shape the demographic composition of future economists.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 471 muchhas been written about the way in which the classroom climate including instructors patterns of interaction with men and women students and sex stereotyping in textbooks may make women less condent aboutsucceeding in particular areas (hall and sandler, 1982 ;f e r b e r , 1990 ). the standard androcentric biases in the topics, models and methods of eco-nomics may be added to the list of ways in which women students may besubtly inuenced to believe that economics is not for (or about) me. thecurrent emphasis on mathematical technique also leads to self-selection ofthose students, male and female, who nd abstract analysis satisfying butwho may be weak in broader analytical thinking, and the self-exclusion ofmany students who perhaps have ne analytical skills, but see little use forthem in economics. such selection leads to a vicious cycle, in which studentsand instructors are both heavily invested in the status quo. conclusion feminist economics, to reiterate, is not female economics, to be practiced only by women, nor feminine economics that uses only soft technique andcooperative models. feminist scholarship suggests that economics has been made less useful by implicitly reecting a distorted ideal of masculinity inits models, methods, topics, and pedagogy. feminist scholars argue that theuse of a fuller range of tools to study and teach about a wider territory ofeconomic activity would make economics a more productive discipline forboth male and female practitioners. manyreaders may have discovered that they are already doing feminist economics in some ways, although they have preferred to think of them-selves as just doing good economics. if one feels a need to defend onesworkfrom the description feminist, it might be enlightening to ask one- self about the source of this discomfort. perhaps such defensiveness reectscultural beliefs about masculinity and femininity, and superiority and infe-riority, that could stand some examination. notes 1.while isolated feminist challenges to neoclassical theories date back at least to the 1970s (for example, bell, 1974 ), this article focuses on the second revolution (coughlin, 1993 )that has taken place in just the last few years. this stronger current is exemplied by publications such as ferber and nelson ( 1993 ), recent sessions on feminist economics at the meetings of the american economic asso- ciation (bartlett and feiner, 1992 ;shackelford, 1992 ;strassmann, 1994 ;s t r o b e r ,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 472 julie a. nelson 1994 ), and the organization in 1992 of the international association for feminist economics. 2.this is not to ignore the current scholarly (and popular) debates about the degree towhich males and females may think differently due to genetic or hormonal conditions, only to note that it is not the central issue here. carol gilligans ( 1982 ) work,for example, is often quoted in these discussions as having uncovered male female psychological differences. a more careful reading of her work, how-ever, and of studies which have followed, indicates considerable overlap between men and women in the dimensions studied. what isimportant to the point here, and what has been shown in a number of studies, is the way in which people inu.s. and european cultures tend to mentally associate certain characteristics with masculinity or femininity. for a review of these literatures, see jane mansbridge(1993 ), especially notes 32 and 53. 3.while some feminist economists take a thoroughly postmodernist position, and a few even expound a gynocentric view, this essay focuses on those lines of feministtheorizing about economics that seem to have the most adherents, and that, tomainstream economists, should provide the most convincing case for reform. 4.ithank marianne ferber for this example. refere nces akerlof, george a., and janet l. y ellen, fairness and unemployment, american eco- nomic review ,may1988, 78:2, 449. bakker, isabella, ed., the strategic silence: gender and economic policy .l o n d o n, zed books, 1994. bartlett, robin l., and susan f. feiner, balancing the economics curriculum: content, method, and pedagogy, american economic review ,may1992, 82:2, 55964. bartlett, robin l., and paul king, t eaching economics as a laboratory science, journal ofeconomic education ,spring 1990, 21,18193. becker, gary s., the economic approach to human behavior .chicago: university of chicago press, 1976. bell, carolyn shaw, economics, sex and gender, social science quarterly ,1974, 55:3, 61531. benhabib, seyla, the generalized and the concrete other: the kohlberg-gilligan con- troversy and moral theory. in meyers, diana, and eva feder kittay, eds., women and moraltheory .totowa, n.j.: rowman and littleeld, 1987, pp. 15477. bergmann, barbara r., the economic emergence of women .new y ork: basic books, 1986. bergmann, barbara r., measurement, or finding things out in economics, journal ofeconomic education ,spring 1987a, 18:2, 191203. bergmann, barbara r., the task of a feminist economics: a more equitable future. in farnham, christie, ed., the impact of feminist research in the academy .bloomington: indiana university press, 1987b, pp. 13147. bleier, ruth, sex differences research: science or belief? in bleier, ruth, ed., feminist approac hes to science .new y ork, pergamon press, 1986, pp. 14764. blinder alan s., why are prices sticky? preliminary results from an interview survey, american economic review ,may1991, 81:2, 8996.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 473 bordo, susan, the flight to objectivity: essays on cartesianism and culture .albany: state university of new y ork press, 1987. coughlin, ellen, k., feminist economists vs. economic man: questioning a fields bedrock concepts, chronicle of higher education ,june 30, 1993, 39:43, a8a9. dewald, william g., jerry g. thursby, and richard g. anderson, replication in empir- ical economics, american economic review ,september 1986, 76:4, 587603. easlea, brian, witch hunting, magic and the new philosophy: an introduction to debates ofthe scientic revolution, 14501750 .atlantic highlands, n.j.: humanities press, 1980. ehrenberg, ronald g., and robert s. smith, modern labor economics: theory and public policy.5th ed. new y ork: harper collins publishers, 1994. england, paula, comparable worth: theories and evidence .new y ork: aldine de gruyter, 1992. england, paula the separative self: androcentric bias in neoclassical assumptions. inferber, marianne a., and julie a. nelson, eds., beyond economic man: feminist theory and economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1993, pp. 3753. ferber, marianne a., gender and the study of economics. in saunders, phillip, and william b. walstad, eds., the principles of economics course: a handbook for instruc- tors.new y ork, mcgraw-hill, 1990, pp. 4460. ferber, marianne a., and julie a. nelson, beyond economic man: feminist theory and economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1993. folbre, nancy, the unproductive housewife: her evolution in nineteenth-century economic thought, signs: journal of women in culture and society ,spring 1991, 16:3, 46384. folbre, nancy, who pays for the kids? gender and the structures of constraint .n e wy o r k : routledge, 1994a. folbre, nancy, domesticate the gross product, dollars and sense ,march april 1994b, 192,7 . frank, robert h., passions within reason: the strategic role of the emotions .n e wy o r k : w.w.norton, 1988. georgescu-roegen, nicholas, the entropy law and the economic process .cambridge: harvard university press, 1971. gilligan, carol, inad ifferent voice: psychological theory and womens development . cambridge: harvard university press, 1982. gwartney, james d., richard stroup, and j. r. clark, essentials of economics .n e wy o r k : academic press, 1985. hall, roberta m., and bernice r. sandler, the classroom climate: a chilly one for women .washington d.c.: association of american colleges, 1982. harding, sandra, the science question in feminism .ithaca: cornell university press, 1986. harding, sandra, can feminist thought make economics more objective?, feminist economics ,spring 1995, i:1, forthcoming. kahneman, daniel, jack l. knetsch, and richard thaler, fairness as a constraint on prot seeking: entitlements in the market, american economic review ,s e p t e m b e r 1986, 76:4, 72841. keller, eve lyn fox, reections on gender and science .new haven, conn.: y ale university press, 1985.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 474 julie a. nelson keller, evelyn fox, how gender matters: or, why its so hard for us to count past two.inharding, jan, ed., perspectives on gender and science .london: palmer press, 1986, pp. 16883. krueger, anne o., et al., report of the commission on graduate education in eco- nomics, journal of economic literature ,september 1991, 29:3, 103553. lakoff, george, and mark johnson, metaphors we live by .chicago: university of chicago press, 1980. levin, lee b., t oward a feminist, post-keynesian theory of investment: a consid- eration of the socially- and emotionally-co nstituted nature of agent knowledge. inkuiper, edith, jolande sap, susan feiner, notburga ott, and zaris tzannatos, eds., out of the margin: feminist perspectives on economic theory .l o n d o n :r o utledge, forthcoming, 1995. longino, helen, science as social knowledge: values and objectivity in scientic inquiry . princeton: princeton university press, 1990. lucas, robert e., jr., models of business cycles .oxford basil blackwell, 1987. mansbridge, jane, feminism and democratic community. in chapman, john w., and ian shapiro, eds., democratic community: nomos xxxv .n e wy o r k :n e wy o r k university press, 1993, pp. 33995. mayer, thomas, truth vs. precision in economics .brookeld. vt.: edward elgar, 1993. mccloskey, donald n., the writing of economics .new y ork: macmillan, 1987. mccloskey, donald n., some consequences of a conjective economics. in ferber, marianne a., and julie a. nelson, eds., beyond economic man: feminist theory and economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1993, pp. 6993. merchant, carolyn, the death of nature: women, ecology and the scientic revolution . san francisco harper row, 1980. nelson, julie a., gender, metaphor and the denition of economics, economics and philosophy ,spring 1992, 8:1, 10325. nelson, julie a., household equivalence scales: theory vs. policy?, journal of labor economics ,july 1993a, 11:3, 47193. nelson, julie a., the study of choice or the study of provisioning? gender and the denition of economics. in ferber, marianne a., and julie a. nelson, eds., beyond economic man: feminist. theory and economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1993b, pp. 2336. nelson, julie a., feminism, objectivity, and economics .london: routledge, forthcoming. nussbaum, martha c., and amartya sen, eds., the quality of life .o x f o r dc larendon press, 1993. renwick, trudi j., and barbara r. bergmann, a budget-based denition of poverty: with an application to single-parent families, journal of human resources ,winter 1993, 28:1, 124. shackelford, jean, feminist pedagogy: a means for bringing critical thinking and creativity to the economics classroom, american economic review ,may1992, 82:2, 57076. sen, amartya, rational fools: a critique of the behavioral foundations of economic theory, philosophy and public affairs ,summer 1977, 6,31744. sen, amartya, women, t echnology, and sexual divisions. in united nation confer- ence on trade and development, trade and development: an unctad review ,1985, 6,pp.195223.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 475 sen amartya, objectivity and position .the lindley lecture, the university of kansas, 1992. strassmann, diana l., not a free market: the rhetoric of disciplinary authority in economics. in ferber, marianne a., and julie a. nelson, eds., beyond economic man: feminist theory and economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1993, pp. 5468. strassmann, diana l., feminist thought and economics: or, what do the visigoths know?, american economic review .may1994, 84:2, 15358. strober, myra, the scope of microeconomics: implications for economic education, journal of economic education ,spring 1987, 18,13549. strober, myra, rethinking economics through a feminist lens, american economic review ,may1994, 84:2, 14347. strober, myra, and carolyn l. arnold, the dynamics of occupational segregation among bank t ellers! in brown, clair, and joseph a. pechman, eds., gender and the workp lace.washington d.c.: the brookings institution, 1987, pp. 10748. summers, lawrence h., the scientic illusion in empirical macroeconomics, scan- dinavian journal of economics ,1991, 93:1, 12948. waring, marilyn, ifwomen counted: a new feminist economics .n e wy o r k :h a r p e r row, 1988.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 twenty-six credible worlds the status of theoretical models in economics robert sugden robert sugden (1949 ) is a professor of economics at the university of east anglia. hisresearch uses theoretical, experimental, and philosophical methods to investi- gate issues in welfare economics, choice under uncertainty, pro-social behavior, theemergence of conventions and norms, economic methodology, and philosophicaleconomics. he is probably best known for developing regret theory (with grahamloomes) and for the economics of rights, cooperation and welfare ,o n eo f the rst applications of evolutionary game theory to social theory and moral philosophy.currently, he holds a research fellowship from the economic and social research council for work on reconciling behavioral and normative economics. overview using as examples akerlofs market for lemons and schellings checker- board model of racial segregatio n, this paper asks how economists abstract theoretical models can explain features of the real world. it argues that suchmodels are not abstractions from, or simplications of, the real world. theydescribe counterfactual worlds whic hthe modeller has constructed. the gap between model world and real world can be lled only by inductiveinference, and we can have more condence in such inferences, the morecredible the model is as an account of what could have been true. 1. introduction iwritethis paper not as a methodologist or as a philosopher of social science neither of which i can make any claim to be but as a theoretical economist.ihavespent a considerable part of my life building economic models, and examining the models that other economists have built. i believe that i am journal of economic methodology ,vol. 7 (2000): 131. reprinted by permission of taylor and francis, ltd. 476

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 477 making reasonably good use of my talents in an attempt to understand the social world. i have no fellow-feeling with those economic theorists who,off the record at seminars and conferences, admit that they are only playingagame with other theorists. if their models are not intended seriously, i want to say (and do say when i feel sufciently combative), why do theyexpect me to spend my time listening to their expositions? count me out of the game. at the back of my mind, however, there is a trace of self-doubt.do the sort of models that i try to build really help us to understand theworld? or am i too just playing a game, without being self-critical enough to admit it? mystarting point is that model-building in economics has serious intent only if it is ultimately directed towards telling us something about the realworld. in using the expression the real world as i shall throughout the paper i immediately reveal myself as an economic theorist. this expressionis standardly used by economic theorists to mark the distinction betweenthe world inside a model and the real world outside it. theory becomes justagame when theorists work entirely in the world of models. as an analogy, wemight think of chess, which was once a model of warfare, but has become agame a self-contained world with no reference to anything outside itself. my strategy is to focus on two models george akerlofs market for lemons , and thomas schellings checkerboard city which exemplify thekind of model-building to which i aspire. of course, these are not typicalexamples of economic models: they represent theory at its best. nevertheless, at least at rst sight, these models have many of the vices that critics attributetotheoretical economics: they are abstract and unrealistic and they lead tono clearly testable hypotheses. it would be easy to caricature them as examples perhaps unusually imaginative and, from a mathematical point of view, unusually informal examples of the games that economic theoristsplay. thus, they provide suitable case studies for an attempted defence ofmodel-building in economics. ibelieve that each of these models tells us something important and true about the real world. my object is to discover just what these models do tellus about the world, and how they do it. 2. akerlof and the market for lemons akerlofs 1970 paper the market for lemons is one of the best-known papers in theoretical economics. it is generally seen as having introduced toeconomics the concept of asymmetric information, and in doing so, sparkingoff what is now a whole branch of economics: the economics of information.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 478 robert sugden itis a theoretical paper that almost all economists, however untheoretical they might be, would now recognize as important. it is also a paper that just about every economic theorist would love to have written. because there isno dispute about its value, akerlof spaper is particularly suitable for my purposes. everyone can see that this is a major contribution to economics. 1 the puzzle is to say exactly what the contribution is. is akerlof telling usanything about the real world, and if so, what? itis worth looking closely at the structure of the paper. here is the opening paragraph: this paper relates quality and uncertainty. the existence of goods of many grades poses interesting and important problems for the theory of markets. on the onehand, the interaction of quality differences and uncertainty may explain importantinstitutions of the labour market. on the other hand, this paper presents a strugglingattempt to give structure to the statement: business in underdeveloped countriesis difcult; in particular, a structure is given for determining the economic costs ofdishonesty. additional applications of the theory include comments on the structureof money markets, on the notion of insurability , on the liquidity of durables, andon brand-name goods. (akerlof 1970 :488) clearly, akerlof is claiming that his paper has something to say about an astonishingly wide range of phenomena in the real world. the paper, we are promised, is going to tell us something about the institutions of the labourmarket, about business in underdeveloped countries, about insurability, andso on. but what kind of thing is it going to tell us? on this point, akerlofis rather coy. in the case of the labour market, he seems to be promisingtoexplain some features of the real world. (or is he? see later.) but in the case of business in underdeveloped countries, he is only going to give structure to a statement that is often made about the real world. here, the implication seems to be that akerlofs model will somehow reformulatean empirical proposition which is generally believed to be true (but mightactually be false). in the other cases we are promised comments which aretobe understood as applications of the theory he is to present. akerlof then says that, although his theory has these very general appli- cations, he will focus on the market for used cars: the automobile market is used as a nger exercise to illustrate and develop these thoughts. it should be emphasized that this market is chosen for its concretenessand ease in understanding rather than for its importance or realism. (akerlof 1970 : 489) on rst reading, it is tempting to interpret the automobile market as the market in which real people buy and sell real cars, and to think that akerlof

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 479 is going to present some kind of case study. one can see why he might focus on one particular market which is easy to understand, even if that market isnot very important on the scale of the economy as a whole. but then whatdoes akerlof mean when he says that this market is not realistic ?t h eo b ject of a case study may be unrepresentative, but it cannot be unrealistic. t o makesense of this passage, i think, we have to recognize that it marks a transitionbetween the real world and the world of models. akerlof is using the realautomobile market as an example. but what he is going to present is not anempirical case study; it is a model of the automobile market. although it isthe real market which may be unimportant, it is the model which may beunrealistic. akerlof moves straight on to the cent ral section of his paper, section ii, entitled the model with automobiles as an example . the transition fromreality to model is made again at the very beginning of this section: the example of used cars captures the essence of the problem. from time to time one hears either mention of or surprise at the large price difference between new cars andthose which have just left the showroom. the usual lunch table justication for thisphenomenon is the pure joy of owning a new car. we offer a different explanation.suppose (for the sake of clarity rather than realism) that there are just four kinds of cars. there are new cars and used cars. there are good cars and bad cars ...(akerlof 1970 :489) the rst four sentences are about an observed property of the real world: there is a large price difference between new cars and almost-new ones. akerlof suggests that, at least from the viewpoint of the lunch table, thisobservation is difcult to explain. if we assume that akerlof takes lunch withother economists, the implication is that economics cannot easily explain it;the pure joy hypothesis sounds like an ad hoc stratagem to rescue conven- tional price theory. so far, then, the mode of argument might be popperian:there is a received theory which makes certain predictions about marketprices; observations of the used car market are contrary to those predictions;therefore, a new theory is needed. 2 butfromthe word suppose in the passage above, we move out of the real world and into the world of the model. akerlof sets up an imaginary world; he makes no pretence to describe any real market. in this world, there aretwo groups of traders, type one and type two . all traders of a given typeare alike. there are ncars, which differ only in quality . quality is measured in money units and is uniformly distributed over some range. each groupof traders maximizes an aggregate utility function. for group one, utilityis the sum of the qualities of the cars it owns and the monetary value of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 480 robert sugden its consumption of other goods. for group two, the utility function is the same, except that quality is multiplied by 3 2. thus, for any given quality ofcar, the monetary value of a car to type one traders is less than its monetaryvalue to type two traders. all cars are initially owned by type one traders.the quality of cars has a uniform distribution. the quality of each car isknown only to its owner, but the average quality of all traded cars is knownto ever yone. akerlof admits that these assumptions are not realistic: they are not even close approximations to properties of the real used-car market. he justiesthem as simplications which allow him to focus on those features of the realmarket that he wishes to analyse. for example, he defends his assumptionsabout utility (which implicitly impose r isk neutrality) against what he takes tobe the more realistic alternative assumption of risk aversion by saying that he does not want to get needlessly mired in algebraic complication: the useof linear utility allows a focus on the effects of asymmetry of information;with a concave utility function we would have to deal with the usual risk- variance effects of uncertainty and the special effects we have to deal withhere (pp. 490491). akerlof investigates what happens in his model world. the main conclu- sion is simple and startling. he shows that if cars are to be traded at all, theremust be a single market price p. then: however,with any price p, average quality is p 2 and therefore at no price will any trade take place at all: in spite of the fact that at any given price [between certain limits] there are traders of type one who are willing to sell their automobiles at a price which traders of type two are willing to pay. (akerlof 1970 :491) finally, akerlof shows what would happen in the same market if informa- tion were symmetric that is, if neither buyers nor sellers knew the quality of individual cars, but both knew the probability distribution of quality. inthis case, there is a market-clearing equilibrium price, and trade takes place,just as the standard theory of markets would lead us to expect. akerlof endssection ii at this point, so let us take stock. what we have been shown is that in a highly unrealistic model of the used car market, no trade takes place even though each car is worth lesstoits owner than it would be to a potential buyer. we have also been given some reason to think that, in generating this result, the crucial propertyof the model world is that sellers know more than buyers. notice that,taken literally, akerlofs result is too strong to t with the phenomenon heoriginally promised to explain the price difference between new and usedcars. 3presumably, then, akerlof sees his model as describing in extreme form

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 481 the workings of some tendency which exists in the real used-car market, by virtue of the asymmetry of information which (he claims) is a property of that market. this tendency is a used-car version of greshams law: badcars drive out good. in the real used-car market, according to akerlof, thistendency has the effect of reducing the average quality of cars traded, but not eliminating trade altogether; the low quality of traded cars then explainstheir low price. remarkably, akerlof says nothing more about the realmarket in used cars. inthe whole paper, the only empirical statement about the used-car market is the one i have quoted, about lunch-table conversation. akerlof presentsno evidence to support his claim that there is a large price difference betweennew and almost-new cars. this is perhaps understandable, since he clearlyassumes that this price difference is generally known. more surprisingly, hepresents no evidence that the owners of nearly-new cars know signicantlymore about their quality than do potential buyers. and although later in thepaper he talks about market institutio ns which can overcome the problem of asymmetric information, he does not offer any argument, theoreticalor empirical, to counter the hypothesis that such institutions exist in theused-car market. but if they do, akerlofs explanation of price differences isundermined. however,akerlof has quite a lot to say about other real markets in sec- tion iii of the paper, examples and applications . in four subsections, enti-tled insurance , the employment of minorities , the costs of dishonesty ,and credit markets in underdeveloped countries , akerlof presents whatare effectively brief case studies. we are told that adverse selection in theinsurance market is strictly analogous to our automobiles case (p. 493),that the lemons principle ...casts light on the employment of minorities (p. 494), that the lemons model can be used to make some comments onthe costs of dishonesty (p. 495), and that credit markets in underdevelopedcountries often strongly reect the lemons principle (p. 497). these dis- cussions are in the style that economists call casual empiricism . they aresuggestive, just as the used-car case is, but they cannot be regarded as anykind of test of a hypothesis. in fact, there is no hypothesis. akerlof neverdenes the lemons principle; all we can safely infer is that this term refers tothe model of the used-car market. ultimately, then, the claims of section iiiamount to this: in these four cases, we see markets that are in some way likethe model. the nal part of the paper (apart from a very short conclusion) is section iv, countervailing institutions . this is a brief discussion, againin the mode of casual empiricism, of some real-world institutions which

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 482 robert sugden counteract the problem of asymmetric information. the examples looked at are guarantees, brand names, hotel and restaurant chains, and certication in the labour market (such as the certication of doctors and barbers). thelatter example seems to be what akerlof was referring to in his introductionwhen he claimed that his approach might explain important institutions ofthe labour market . here, the claim seems to be that there are markets whichwould be like the model of the used-car market, were it not for some special institutional feature; therefore, the model explains those features. from a popperian perspective, sections iii and iv have all the hallmarks of pseudo-science . akerlof has not proposed any hypothesis in a form thatcould be tested against observation. all he has presented is an empirically ill-dened lemons principle . in section iii, he has assembled a fairly ran-dom assortment of evidence which appears to conrm that principle. insection iv, he argues that the real world often is not like the model, but thisis to be seen not as refutation but as additional conrmation. what kind ofscientic reasoning is this? 3. schellings checkerboard model of racial sorting myother example of a theoretical model in economics is not quite as famous as the market for lemons, but it is a personal favourite of mine.4italso deserves to be recognized as one of the earliest uses of what is now a well-established theoretical method: evol utionary game theory with localized interactions in a spatial structure. this is the chapter sorting and mixing:race and sex in schellings book micr omotives and macrobehaviour (1978 ). the book as a whole is concerned with one of the classic themes of economics: the unintended social consequences of uncoordinated individualactions. using a wide range of novel and surprising examples, schellingsets out to show that spontaneous human interaction typically generatesunintended patterns at the social level; in some cases these patterns aredesirable, but in many cases they are not. schelling opens this chapter with an extended and informal discussion of segregation by colour and by sex in various social settings. his concernis with patterns of segregation that arise out of the voluntary choices ofindividuals. one important case of such self-segregation, he suggests, is thehousing market of american cities. blacks and whites 5tend to live in separate areas; the boundaries of these areas change over time, but the segregationremains. schelling suggests that it is unlikely that almost all americans desire to live in such sharply segregated areas. he asks us to consider thepossibility that the sharp segregation we observe at the social level is an

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 483 unintended consequence of individual actions which are motivated only by apreference for not living in an area in which people of the other colour form an overwhelming majority. in the context of tables in a cafeteria for abaseball training camp, schelling puts his hypothesis like this: players can ignore, accept, or even prefer mixed tables but become uncomfortable or self-conscious, or think that others are uncomfortable or self-conscious, when themixture is lopsided. joining a table with bl acks and whites is a casual thing, but being the seventh at a table with six players of the opposite colour imposes a thresholdof self-consciousness that spoils the easy atmosphere and can lead to complete andsustained separation. (schelling 1978 :144) having discussed a number of cases of self-segr egation, both by colour and bysex, and in each case having oated the hypothesis that sharp segregation is an unintended consequence of much milder preferences, schelling presents aself-forming neighbourhood model . he begins disarmingly: some vivid dynamics can be generated by any reader with a half-hour to spare, a roll of pennies and a roll of dimes, a tabletop, a large sheet of paper, a spirit ofscientic enquiry, or, failing that spirit, a fondness for games (p. 147). weare instructed to mark out an 8 x 8 grid of squares. the dimes and pennies: represent the members of two homogeneous groups men and women, blacks and whites, french-speaking and english-speaking, ofcers and enlisted men, students and faculty, surfers and swimmers, the well dressed and the poorly dressed, or any other dichotomy that is exhaustive and recognizable. (schelling 1978 :147) wethen distribute coins over the squares of the grid. each square must either be allocated one coin or left empty (it is important to leave some empty spaces). next, we postulate a condition which determines whether a coin iscontent with its neighbourhood. for example, we might specify that a coin is content provided that at least one-third of its neighbours (that is, coins onhorizontally, vertically or diagonally adjacent squares) are of the same type as itself. then we look for coins which are not content. whenever we nd suchacoin, we move it to the nearest empty square at which it isconten t( e v e n if, in so doing, we make other coins discontented). this continues untilthere are no discontented coins. schelling suggests that we try this withdifferent initial distributions of coins and different rules. what we will nd,he says, is a very strong tendency for the emergence of sharply segregateddistributions of coins, even when the condition for contentedness is quiteweak. i have followed schellings instructions (with the help of a computer program rather than paper and coins), and i can conrm that he is right.clearly, schelling expects that after we have watched the workings of this

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 484 robert sugden model, we will nd his earlier arguments ab out real-world segregation more convincing. the general strategy of schellings chapter is remarkably similar to that of akerlofs paper. each author is claiming that some regularity r (bad products driving out good, persistent racial segregation with moving geographicalboundaries) can be found in economic or social phenomena. each is alsoclaiming that r can be explained by some set of causal factors f (sellersbeing better-informed than buyers, a common preference not to be heavilyoutnumbered by neighbours not of ones own type). implicitly, each ismaking three claims: that r occurs (or often occurs); that f operates (oroften operates); and that f causes r (or tends to cause it). neither presentsany of these claims as a testable hypothesis, but each offers informal evidencefrom selected case studies which seems to support the rst two claims. eachuses a formal model in support of the claim about causation. in each case,the formal model is a very simple, full y-described and self-contained world. the supposedly causal factors f are built into the specication of the model.inthe model world, r is found in an extreme form. this is supposed to make more credible the claim that in the real world, f causes r. but just how isthat claim made more credible? 4. conceptual exploration before going on, we need to consider an alternative reading of akerlof andschelling, in which their models are not intended to support any claimsabout the real world. 6asdaniel hausman ( 1992 :221) has pointed out, the- oretical work in economics is often concerned with conceptual explorationrather than empirical theorizing . conceptual exploration investigates the internal properties of models, withou tconsidering the relationship between the world of the model and the real world. suchworkcan be seen as valuable, even by someone who insists that the ultimate purpose of model-building is to tell us something about thereal world. for example, it can be valuable because it nds simpler for- mulations of existing theories, or discovers useful theorems within those theories. (consider paul samuelsons demonstration that most of conven-tional demand theory can be deduced from a few simple axioms aboutconsistent choice.) or it can be valuable because it discovers previously unsuspected inconsistencies in received theories. (for example, kennetharrows impossibility theorem can be interpreted as a demonstration of the incoherence of bergson-samuelson welfare economics. 7)there are also

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 485 instances in which the development of a theory intended for one applica- tion has generated results which have later proved to be useful in completelydifferent domains. (think how much has grown out of john von neumannand oskar morgensterns exploration of strategies for playing poker.) thus,tocharacterize akerlofs and schellings models as conceptual exploration need not be to denigrate them. so let us consider what we would learn from these models if we interpreted them as conceptual exploration and nothing else. take akerlof rst. akerlofscontribution, it might be said, is to show that some implications of the stan- dard behavioural assumptions of economic theory are highly sensitive tothe particular simplifying assumptions that are made about knowledge. 8 morespecically, the usual results about pareto-efcient, market-clearing equilibrium trade can be radically altered if, instead of assuming that buyersand sellers are equally well-informed, weallow some degree of asymmetry of information. the message of akerlofs paper, then, is that some commonly-invoked theoretical propositions about markets are not as robust as waspreviously thought. thus, conclusions derived from models which assumesymmetric information should be treated with caution, and new theoriesneed to be developed which take account of the effects of asymmetric infor-mation. on this reading, the discussion of used cars is no more than a storyattached to a formal model, useful in aiding exposition and comprehension,but which can be dispensed with if necessary. 9the paper is not about used cars: it is about the theory of markets. what about schelling? we might say that schelling is presenting a cri- tique of a commonly-held view that segregation must be the product eitherof deliberate public policy or of strong ly segregationist preferences. the checkerboard model is a counter-example to these claims: it shows that seg- regation could arise without either of those factors being present. on this reading, schelling is making an important contribution to debates about seg- regation in the real world, but the contribution is conceptual: he is pointing toan error in an existing theory. in terms of the symbols i introduced in section 3,schelling is not asserting: r occurs, f operates, and f causes r . all he is asserting is: r could occur, f could operate, and it could be the casethat f caused r . itmust be said that there is at least some textual evidence that both akerlof and schelling are tempted by this kind of interpretation of their models. asihavealready suggested, akerlof often seems to be taking care not to draw inferences about the real world from his model. for example, although hedoes claim to be offering an explanation of price differences in the real car

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 486 robert sugden market, his other references to explanation are more nuanced. notice that in the opening paragraph he does not claim that his model explains importantinstitutions of the labour market: what may (not does) explain them isthe interaction of quality differences and uncertainty . the nal sentence of the paper uses a similar formulation: the difculty of distinguishinggood quality from bad ...may indeed explain many economic institutions (p. 500). on one reading of may in these passages, akerlof is engaged onlyin conceptual exploration: he is considering what sorts of theory are possible,but not whether or not these theories actually explain the phenomena ofthe real world. however, i shall suggest that a more natural reading is thatakerlof is trying to say something like this: i believe that economists willbe able to use the ideas in this paper to construct theories which doexplain important economic institutions. schelling is more explicit about his method, and what it can tell us: what can we conclude from an exercise like this? we may at least be able to disprove afew notions that are themselves based on reasoning no more complicated than the checkerboard. propositions beginning with it stands to reason that ...can some- times be discredited by exceedingly simple demonstrations that, though perhaps true, they do not exactly stand to reason . we can at least persuade ourselves that certain mechanisms could work, and that observable aggregate phenomena could be compatible with types of molecular movement that do not closely resemble theaggregate outcomes that they determine. (schelling 1978 :152) schelling does not elaborate on what notions he has disproved. possibly what he has in mind is the notion that either deliberate policy or the existence of strongly segregationist preferences is a necessary condition for the kindof racial segregation that is observed in american cities. his claim, then, isthat he has discredited this notion by means of a counter-example. whatever we make of these passages, neither paper, considered as a whole, can satisfactorily be read as conceptual exploration and nothing else. themost obvious objection to this kind of interpretation is that akerlof andschelling both devote such a lot of space to the discussion of real-world phe-nomena. granted that akerlofs treatment of the used car market has someof the hallmarks of a theorists story , what is the point of all the examplesand applications in his section iii, or of the discussion of countervailinginstitutions in section iv, if not to tell us something about how the worldreally is? this material may be casual empiricism, but it is empiricism none the less. it is not just a way of helping us to understand the internal logic ofthe model. similarly, schellings discussion of the baseball training camp isclearly intended as a description of the real world. its purpose, surely, is topersuade us of the credibility of the hypothesis that real people it is hinted,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 487 people like us have mildly segregatio nist preferences. if all we were being offered was a counterexample to a general theoretical claim, such materialwould be redundant. clearly, neither akerlof nor schelling wants to claim that his work is a completed theory. the suggestion seems to be that these are preliminary sketches of theories. the models that are presented are perhaps supposed tostand in the sort of relation to a completed theory that a concept car doestoan ew production model, or that the clothes in a haute couture fashion show do to the latest designs in a fashion shop. that is, these models aresuggestions about how to set about explaining some phenomenon in thereal world. t o put this another way, they are sketches of processes which, according to their creators, might explain phenomena we can observe in thereal world. but the sense of might explain here is not just the kind of logical possibility that could be discovered by conceptual exploration. (the lattersense could be paraphrased as: in principle, it is possible that processeswith this particular formal structure could generate regularities with that particular formal structure .) the theorist is declaring his condence thathis approach is likely to work as an explanation, even if he does not claimso to have explained anything so far. ifakerlofs and schellings disclaimers were to be read as saying this work is conceptual exploration and nothing else , they would surely be disingenu-ous. we are being offered potential explanations of real-world phenomena.weare being encouraged to take these potential explanations seriously perhaps even to do some of the work necessary to turn these sketches oftheories into production models. if we are to do this, it is not enough thatwehave condence in the technical feasibility of an internally consistent theory. of course, having that condence is important, and we can get it byconceptual exploration of formal models. but what we need in addition is some condence that the production model is likely to do the job for whichit has been designed that it is likely to explain real-world phenomena.inother words, we need to see a sketch of an actual explanation, not just of a logically coherent formal structure. we should expect akerlofs andschellings models to provide explanations, however tentative and imper-fect, of regularities in the real world. i shall proceed on the assumption thatthese models are intended to function as such explanations. 5. instrumentalism this brings us back to the problem: how do unrealistic economic modelsexplain real-world phenomena?

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 488 robert sugden manyeconomists are attracted by the instrumentalist position that a theory should be judged only on its predictive power within the particular domain in which it is intended to be used. according to one version ofinstrumentalism, the assumptions of a theory, properly understood, areno more than a compact notation for summarizing the theorys predictions;thus, the question of whether assumptions are realistic or unrealistic doesnot arise. an alternative form of instrumentalism, perhaps more appropriatefor economics, accepts that the assumptions of a theory refer tothings in the real world, but maintains that it does not matter whether those assumptions are true or false. on either account, the assumptions of a theory function only as a representation of the theorys predictions. instrumentalist arguments are often used in defence of the neoclassi- cal theory of price determination which assumes utility-maximizing con-sumers, prot-maximizing rms, and the instantaneous adjustment ofprices to market-clearing levels. in the instrumentalist interpretation theobject of the neoclassical theory is to predict changes in the prices and totalquantities traded of different goods as a result of exogenous changes (such aschanges in technology or taxes). on this view, aggregated economic statistics play the same role in economics as the movements of the heavenly bodiesthrough the sky did in early astronomy: 10they are the only phenomena we want to predict, and the only (or only acceptable) data.11the neoclassical theory is just a compact description of a set of predictions. t o ask whetherits assumptions are realistic is either to make a category mistake (becauseassumptions do not refer to anything that has real existence) or to miss thepoint (because, although assumptions refer to real things, the truth or falsityof those references has no bearing on the value of the theory). butisitpossible to understand akerlofs and schellings models instru- mentally? these models are certainly similar to the neoclassical model ofmarkets in their use of highly simplied assumptions which, if taken literally,are highly unrealistic. but if these models are intended to be read instrumen-tally, we should expect to nd them being used to generate unambiguouspredictions about the real world. further, there should be a clear distinctionbetween assumptions (which either have no truth values at all, or are allowedtobe false) and predictions (which are asserted to be true). infact, neither akerlof nor schelling proposes any explicit and testable hypothesis about the real world. nor does either theorist maintain an instru- mentalist distinction between assumptions and predictions. akerlofs case studies seem to be intended as much to persuade us of the credibility ofhis assumptions about asymmetric information as to persuade us that thevolume of trade is sub-optimal. as i have already said, schellings discussion

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 489 of the baseball camp seems to be intended to persuade us of the credibil- ity of his assumptions about preferences. on the most natural readings,isuggest, akerlof and schelling think they are telling us about forces or tendencies which connect realcauses (asymmetric information, mildly seg- regationist preferences) to realeffects (sub-optimal volumes of trade, sharp segregation). akerlofs and schel lings unrealistic models are supposed to givesupport to these claims about real tendencies. whatever method this is, it is not instrumentalism: it is some form of realism. 6. metaphor and caricature allan gibbard and hal varian ( 1978 )o f f e r an interpretation of economic models which emphasizes explanation rather than prediction. they charac-terizeam odel as the conjunction of two elements: an uninterpreted formal system within which logical deductions can be made, and a story whichgivessome kind of interpretation of that formal system. with schellings checkerboard model apparently in mind, they describe a form of modelling in which the t of the model to the real world is casual : the goal of casual application is to explain aspects of the world that can be noticed or conjectured without explicit techniques of measurement. in some cases, an aspect of the world (such as price dispersal, housing segregation, and the like) is noticed, andcertain aspects of the micro-situation are thought perhaps to explain it; a model is then constructed to provide the explanation. in other cases, an aspect of the micro-world is noticed, and a model is used to investigate the kinds of effects such a factor could be expected to have. (gibbard and hal varian 1978 :672) this seems a fair description of what b oth akerlof and schelling are doing. butgibbard and varian have disappointingly little to say about how acasual model explains an aspect of the real world, or how it allows us to investigate the likely effects of real-world factors on real-world phenomena. gibbard and varian recognize indeed, they welcome the fact that casual models are unrealistic; but their defence of this lack of realism is itself rather casual: when economic models are used in this way to explain casually observable features of the world, it is important that one be able to grasp the explanation. simplicity, then, will be a highly desirable feature of such models. complications to get as closeas possible a t to reality will be undesirable if they make the model less possible tograsp. such complications may, moreover, be unnecessary, since the aspects of the world the model is used to explain are not precisely measured. (gibbard and hal varian1978 :672)

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 490 robert sugden the suggestion here seems to be that the purpose of a model is to com- municate an idea to an audience; simplicity is a virtue because it makes communication easier. but this puts the cart before the horse. what has to be communicated is not just an idea: it is a claim about how things really are, along with reasons for accepting that claim as true. simplicity in commu-nication has a point only if there is something to be communicated. whilegranting that akerlofs and schellings models are easy to grasp, we may still ask what exactly we have gr asped. how do these models come to be explanations? and explanations of what? one possible answer is given by deirdre mccloskey ( 1983 :502507), who argues that models are metaphors. according to mccloskey, the modellersclaim is simply that the real world is like the model in some signicantrespect (p. 502). in evaluating a model, we should ask the same questions as wewould when evaluating a metaphor: is it illuminating, is it satisfying, is it apt? (p. 506). the claim models are metaphors must, i think, be understoodas a metaphor in itself. as a metaphor, it is certainly satisfying and apt; but,in relation to our examination of akerlofs and schellings models, just howilluminating is it? clearly, akerlof and schelling are claiming that the real world is like their models in some signicant respects. w hat is at issue is what exactly these claims amount to, and how (if at all) they can be justied. translating intomccloskeys language, what is at issue is how illuminating and how apt akerlofs and schellings metaphors are. but this translation of the question does not take us any nearer to an answer. gibbard and varian ( 1978 )come closer to giving an answer to this question (at this stage, i do not say the right answer) when they suggestthat models are caricatures. the concept of caricature is tighter than that of metaphor, since the ingredients of a caricature must be taken from thecorresponding reality. (compare cartoons john bull, the fat, beef-eating yeoman farmer, was originally a caricature of a characteristic englishman. although no longer a valid caricature, he is still recognizable as a symbolof, or metaphor for, englishness.) according to gibbard and varian, theassumptions of a model may be chosen not to approximate reality, but toexaggerate or isolate some feature of reality (p. 673). the aim is to distort reality in a way that illuminates certain aspects of that reality (p. 676). the idea that models are caricatures suggests that models may be able to explain the real world because their assumptions describe certain features of that world, albeit in isolated or exaggerated form. gibbard and varian donot pursue this idea very far, but it is taken up in different ways by hausman(1992 :123151) and by uskali m aki ( 1992 ,1994 ), whose work will now be discussed.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 491 7. economics as an inexact deductive science, and the method of isolation ihavesuggested that akerlof and schelling are each pointing to some ten- dency in the real world, which each claims to explain by means of a model. one way of trying to make sense of the idea of tendencies is by means ofwhat hausman calls implicit ceteris paribus clauses . the underlying idea is that the phenomena of the real world are the product of the interactionof many different causal factors. a tendency (some writers prefer the termcapacity) is to be understood as the workings of some small subset of these factors. inorder to describe a tendency, we must somehow isolate the relevant subset of factors from the rest. thus, the description is expressed in coun-terfactual terms, such as in the absence of all other causal factors, l or if all other causal factors are held constant, l where l is some law-like propo-sition about the world. hausman argues that in economics, ceteris paribus clauses are usually both implicit and vague. he uses the term inexact gen-eralization for generalizations that are qualied by implicit ceteris paribus clauses. hausman argues that economics arrives at its generalizations by what he calls the inexact deductive method. he summarizes this method as thefollowing four-step schema: 1.formulate credible ( ceteris paribus )and pragmatically convenient gen- eralizations concerning the operation of relevant causal variables; 2.deduce from these generalizations, and statements of initial conditions, simplications, etc., predictions concerning relevant phenomena; 3.testthe predictions; 4. if the predictions are correct, then regard the whole amalgam as con- rmed. if the predictions are not correct, then compare alternative accounts of the failure on the basis of explanatory success, empiricalprogress, and pragmatic usefulness (p. 222). forhausman, this schema is both justiable and consistent with existing theoretical practice in economics, insofar as that practice aims to appraisetheories empirically (p. 221). 12byfollowing this schema, economists can arrive at inexact generalizations about the world, which they are entitledto regard as co nrmed. the schema is an adaptation of john stuart mills (1843 ,book 6, chs 14) account of the logic of the moral sciences . (the most signicant amendment is that, in hausmans schema, the premisesfrom which deductions are made are mer ely credible generalizations which may be called into question if the predictions derived from them prove

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 492 robert sugden false. in contrast, mill seems to have thought that the inexact predictions of economics could be deduced from proven laws of mind .) makis account of how economic theories explain reality has many similarities with hausmans. like hausman, m aki argues that theoretical assumptions should be read as claims about what is true in the real world.butwhere hausman talks of inexact propositions, m aki talks of isolations. economics, according to m aki, uses the method of isolation, whereby a set of elements is theoretically removed from the inuence of other ele-ments in a given situation ( 1992 :318). on this account, a theory represents just some of the factors which are at work in the real world; the potentialinuence of other factors is sealed off (p. 321). such sealing-off makes atheory unrealistic; but the theory may st ill claim to describe an aspect of reality. as m aki (p. 325) notices, there is a parallel between his concept of theoret- ical isolation and the idea of experimental isolation. laboratory experiments investigate particular elements of the world by isolating them; the mecha-nisms by which other elements are sealed off are experimental controls.the laboratory environment is thereby made unrealistic, in the sense thatit is cleaner than the world outside; but this unrealisticness is an essentialfeature of the experimental method. on this analogy, models are thought experiments. 13 butifathought experiment is to tell us anything about the real world (rather than merely about the structure of our own thoughts), our reasoningmust in some way replicate the workings of the world. for example, think how a structural engineer might use a theoretical model to test the strengthof a new design. this kind of modelling is possible in engineering becausethe theory which describes the general properties of the relevant class ofstructures is already known, even though its implications for the new struc-ture are not. provided the predictions of the general theory are true, theengineers thought experiment replicates a physical experiment that couldhave been carried out. on this interpretation, then, a model explains reality by virtue of the truth of the assumptions that it makes about the causal factors it has isolated. theisolations themselves may be unrealistic; in a literal sense, the assumptionswhich represent these isolations may be (and typically are) false. but theassumptions which represent the workings of the isolated causal factorsneed to be true. so, i suggest, the implications of the method of isolation fortheoretical modelling are broadly similar to the rst two steps of hausmansschema. that is, the modeller has to formulate credible generalizations con-cerning the operation of the factors that have been isolated, and then use

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 493 deductive reasoning to work out what effects these factors will have in par- ticular controlled environments. so is this what akerlof and schelling are doing? even though neither author explicitly proposes a testable hypothesis, we might perhaps inter-pret them as implicitly proposing ceteris paribus hypotheses. (later, i shall suggest what these hypotheses might be.) but if akerlofs and schellingsmodels are to be understood as instances of the inexact deductive method,each model must be interpreted as the deductive machinery which gener-ates the relevant hypothesis. for such an interpretation to be possible, wemust be able to identify the simplifying assumptions of the model with the ceteris paribus or non-interference clauses of the hypothesis. that is, if the hypothesis takes the form x is the case, provided there is no interference of types i 1,...,in,then the model must deduce x from the conjunction of two sets of assumptions. the rst set contains credible and pragmati-cally convenient generalizations preferably ones which have been usedsuccessfully in previous applications of the inexact deductive method. the second set of assumptions which m aki would call isolations postulate the non-existence of i 1,...,in. takeakerlofs model. can its assumptions be understood in this way? some certainly can. for example, akerlof implicity assumes that each tradermaximizes expected utility. correctly or incorrectly, most economists regardexpected utility maximization as a well-grounded generalization about human behaviour; there are (it is thought) occasional exceptions, but these can safely be handled by implicit non-interference clauses. similarly, akerlofassumes that if an equilibrium price exists in a market, that price will comeabout, and the market will clear. this, too, is a generalization that mosteconomists regard as well-grounded. there is a standing presumption ineconomics that, if an empirical statement is deduced from standard assump-tions such as expected utility maximization and market-clearing, then thatstatement is reliable: the theorist does not have to justify those assumptionsanew in every publication. asan example of the other type of assumption, notice that akerlofs model excludes all of the countervailing institutions which he discusses inhis section iv. presumably, if akerlof is proposing an empirical hypothesis,it must be something like the following: if sellers know more than buyersabout the quality of a good, and if there are no countervailing institutions,then the average quality of those goods that are traded is lower than thatof goods in general. the absence of countervailing institutions is a non-interference clause in the hypothesis, and therefore also a legitimate propertyof the model from which the hypothesis is deduced.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 494 robert sugden the difculty for a hausman-like or m aki-like interpretation is that akerlofs and schellings models both include many assumptions which nei-ther are well-founded generalizations nor correspond with ceteris paribus or non-interference clauses in the empirical hypothesis that the modeller isadvancing. akerlof assumes that there are only two types of trader, that alltraders are risk-neutral, that all cars are alike except for a one-dimensional index of quality, and so on. schelling assumes that all individuals are identi-cal except for colour, that they live in the squares of a rectangular grid, andso on again. these are certainly not well-founded empirical generalizations.so can they be read as ceteris paribus clauses? ifweare to interpret these assumptions as ceteris paribus clauses, there must be corresponding restrictive clauses in the hypotheses that are deduced from the models. that is, we must interpr et akerlof and schelling as propos- ing counterfactual empirical hypotheses about what would be observed,werethose assumptions true. but if we pursue the logic of this approach, weend up removing almost all empirical content from the implications of the models and thereby defeating the supposed objective of the inex-act deductive method. take the case of schellings model. suppose we read schelling as claiming that ifpeople lived in checkerboard cities, and ifpeople came in just two colours, and ifeach person was content provided that at least a third of his neighbours were the same colour as him, and if...,and if...(going on to list all the pr operties of the model), then cities would be racially segregated. that is not an empir ical claim at all: it is a theorem. perhaps the best way to t akerlofs and schellings models into haus- mans schema is to interpret their troublesome assumptions as the simpli-cations etc. referred to in step 2 of that schema. but this just shunts theproblem on, since we may then ask why it is legitimate to introduce suchsimplications into a deductive argument. the conclusions of a deductiveargument cannot be any stronger than its premises. thus, any hypothe-sis that is generated by a deductive method must have implicit qualifyingclauses corresponding with the assumptions that are used as premises. andthis does not seem to be true of akerlofs and schellings hypotheses. tounderstand what akerlof and schelling are doing, we have to realize that results that they derive deductively within their models are not thesame as the hypotheses that they want us to entertain. consider exactlywhat akerlof and schelling are a ble to show by means of their models. akerlof shows us that under certain specic conditions (there are just twotypes of trader, all cars are identical except for quality, sellers valuations of cars of given quality are two-thirds those of buyers, etc.), no trade takesplace. among these conditions is a particular assumption about asymmetric

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 495 information: sellers know the quality of their cars, but buyers dont. akerlof also shows that if the only change that is made to this set of conditions istoassume symmetric information instead of asymmetric, then trade does take place. thus, akerlof has proved a ceteris paribus result, but only for a particular array of other conditions. this result might be roughly translatedas the following statement: if all other variables are held constant at theparticular values assumed in the model, then an increase in the degree ofasymmetry of information reduces the volume of trade. what about schelling? schelling shows or, strictly speaking, he invites us to show ourselves that under certain specic conditions (people comein just two colours, each person is located on a checkerboard, etc.) individ-uals independent choices of location generate segregated neighbourhoods.among these conditions is a particular assumption about individuals pref- erences concerning the colour composition of their neighbourhoods: peopleprefer not to live where more than some proportion pof their neighbours are of the other colour. schelling invites us to try out different values of p. wend that segregated neighbourhoods eventually evolve, whatever value ofpweuse, provided it is less than 1. if p 1,that is, if people are completely indifferent about the colours of their neighbours, then segregated neigh-bourhoods will not evolve. (schel ling does not spell out this latter result, but a moments thought about the model is enough to derive it.) thus, wehave established a ceteris paribus result analogous with akerlofs: we have discovered the effects of changes in the value of p,when all other variables are held constant at the particular values specied by the model. toput this more abstractly, let xbe some variable whose value we are trying to explain, and let ( v 1,...,vn)b ea na r r a yo fv a r iables which might have some inuence on x.what akerlof and schelling each succeed in establishing by deductive reasoning is the truth of a proposition of the form:ifthe values of v 2,...,vnare held constant at the specic values v2,...,vn, then the relationship between v1and xis....the values v2,...,vnare those built into the relevant model. taken at face value, this propositiontells us nothing about the relationship between v 1andxin the actual world. ittells us only about that relationship in a counterfactual world. butakerlof and schelling want us to conclude that certain much more general propositions are, if not denitely true, at least credible. when akerloftalks about the lemons principle , he has in mind some broad generalization,perhaps something like the following: for all markets, if all other featuresare held constant, an increase in the degree of asymmetry of informationreduces the volume of trade. similarly, what schelling has in mind is some generalization like the following: for all multi-ethnic cities, if people prefer

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 496 robert sugden not to live in neighbourhoods where the vast majority of their neighbours are of another ethnic group, strongly segregated neighbourhoods will evolve. inmymore abstract notation, the generalizations that akerlof and schelling have in mind have the form: if the values of v 2,...,vnare held constant at any given value, then the relationship between v1and xis.... ifthese generalizations are to be interpreted as hypotheses, the models are supposed to give us reasons for thinking that they are true. if the gen-eralizations are to be interpreted as observed regularities, the models aresupposed to explain why they are true. but deductive reasoning cannot llthe gap between the specic propositions that can be shown to be true inthe model world (that is, propositions that are true if v 2,...,vnare held constant at the values v2....,vn)and the general propositions that we are being invited to entertain (that is, those that are true if v2,...,vnare held constant at any values). somehow, a transition has to be made from aparticular hypothesis, which has been shown to be true in the model world,toageneral hypothesis, which we can expect to be true in the real world too. 8. inductive inference so how can this transition be made? as before, let r stand for a regularity (bad products driving out good, persistent racial segregation with movinggeographical boundaries) which may or may not occur in the real world. letfstand for a set of causal factors (sellers being better-informed than buyers, ac o m m o np r e f e r ence not to be heavily outnumbered by neighbours not of ones own type) which may or may not operate in the real world. akerlofand schelling seem to be reasoning something like this: schema 1: explanation e1 in the model world, r is caused by f.e2fo p e r a t e si nt h er e a lw o r l d . e3ro c c u r si nt h er e a lw o r l d . therefore, there is reason to believe:e4 in the real world, r is caused by f. alternatively, if we read akerlof and schelling as implicitly proposing empirical hypotheses, we might represent their reasoning as: schema 2: prediction p1 in the model world, r is caused by f.p2fo p e r a t e si nt h er e a lw o r l d . therefore, there is reason to believe:p3ro c c u r si nt h er e a lw o r l d .

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 497 athird possible reading of akerlof and schelling involves abductive reason- ing (inferring causes from effects):14 schema 3: abduction a1 in the model world, r is caused by f.a2ro c c u r si nt h er e a lw o r l d . therefore, there is reason to believe : a3fo p e r a t e si nt h er e a lw o r l d . ineach of these three reasoning schemata, the therefore requires an inductive leap. by induction i mean any mode of reasoning which takesus from specic propositions to more general ones (compare the similardenition given by mill [ 1843 ,book 3, ch. 1, p. 186]). here, the specic proposition is that r is caused by f in the case of the model. in order tojustify each of the therefores , we must be justied in inferring that r iscaused by f more generally. ifthere is a general causal link running from ftor,then when we observe f and r together in some particular case (that is, the case of the real world), we have some reason to think that theparticular r is caused by the particular f (explanation). similarly, when weobserve f in a particular case, we have some reason to expect to nd r too(prediction). and when we observe r in a particular case, we have somereason to expect to nd f too (abductio n). it seems, then, that akerlofs and schellings method is not purely deduc tive: it depends on induction as well as on deduction. but how might these inductions be justied? 9. justifying induction: separability one possible answer is to appeal to a very general hypothesis about causation,which (to my knowledge) was rst invoked by mill ( 1843 ,b o o k3 ,c h .6 , pp. 242247). mill denes phenomena as mechanical if the overall effect ofall causal factors can be represented as an addition of those separate factors,on the analogy of the vector addition of forces in newtonian physics. giventhis hypothesis of the composition of causes, we are entitled to move fromtheceteris paribus propositions which have been shown to be true in a model to more ge neral ceteris paribus propositions which apply to the real world too. 15using the notation introduced in section 6,this immediately closes the gap between a proposition which is true if certain variables v2,...,vn are held constant at certain specic values v2,...,vnand a proposition which i st r u ei f v2,...,vnare held constant at any values: if the proposition is true in the rst case, then (if the hypothesis about the composition of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 498 robert sugden causes is true) it is true in the second case too. but what entitles us to use that hypothesis itself? insome cases, it may be legitimate to treat that hypothesis as a proven scientic law as in the paradigm case of the composition of forces inphysics. mill seems to have taken it to be an ap rioritruth that in social phenomena the composition of causes is the universal law ( 1843 ,book 6, ch.7,p.573). however, the argument mill gives in support of this claim is quite inadequate. he simply asserts that human beings in society have noproperties but those which are derived from, and may be resolved into, thelaws of the nature of individual man . but even if we grant this assertion,all we have established is that social facts are separable into facts aboutindividuals. we have not established the separability of causal factors .t hus, for example, the fact that society is an aggregate of individuals does notallow us to deduce that if an increase in the price of some good in one set ofcircumstances causes a decrease in consumption, then the same cause willproduce the same effect in other circumstances. hausman ( 1992 :138) offers a defence for mills method in economics. heclaims that mills supposition that economic phenomena are mechanical is implicit in most applications of economic models , and then says: itsonly justication is success . in other words, this supposition is an inductiveinference from the general experience of economic modelling. butthis argument seems to beg the question. for the sake of the argu- ment, let us grant that economic modelling has often been successful successful, that is, in relation to hausmans criterion of generating correctpredictions about the real world. even so, the explanation of its successmay be that economists are careful not to rely on models unless they havesome independent grounds for believing that the particular phenomena they are trying to explain are mechanical or, more generally, unless they havesome independent grounds for making particular inductive inferences fromthe world of the model to the real world. given the prima facie implausi- bility of the assumption that all economic phenomena are mechanical, itwould be surprising to nd that this assumption was the main foundation for inductive inferences from the oretical models. we should look for other foundations. 10. justifying induction: robustness one way in which inductions might be justied is by showing that the resultsderived from a model are robusttochanges in the specication of that model. gibbard and varian ( 1978 :675) appeal to the robustness criterion when they

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 499 suggest that, in order for caricature-like models to help us to understand reality, the conclusions [should be] robust under changes in the caricature . hausman ( 1992 :149) makes a somewhat similar appeal when he considers the conditions under which it is legitimate to use simplications that is,propositions that are not true of the real world in the second stage of hisschema of the inexact deductive method. he proposes a set of conditionswhich he glosses as reasonable criteria for judging whether the falsity insimplications is irrelevant to the conclusions one derives with their help . one signicant implication of this approach is that simplications need not be isolations. take schellings checkerboard city. the simplicity of thecheckerboard city lies in the way that its pattern repeats itself: if we ignore the edges of the board, every location is identical with every other. (moreshowy theorists than schelling would probably draw the checkerboard onatorus, so that it had no edges at all; this would give us a city located on a doughnut-shaped planet.) this pr operty of repeatingness makes the analysis of the model much easier than it otherwise would be. but it doesnot seem right to say that the checkerboard isolates some aspect of real cities by sealing off various other factors which operate in reality: just whatdo we have to seal off to make a real city say, norwich become like acheckerboard? notice that, in order to arrive at the checkerboard plan, it is not enough just to suppose that all locations are identical with one another(that is, to use a generic concept of location): we need to use a particular form of generic location. so, i suggest, it is more natural to say that the checkerboard plan is something that schelling has constructed for himself. ifwethink that schellings results are sufciently robust to changes in the checkerboard assumption, that assumption may be justied, even though it is not an isolation. 16 robustness arguments work by giving reasons for believing that a result that has been derived in one specic model would also be derived fromawide class of models, or from some very general model which included the original model as a special case. economic theorists tend to like generalmodels, and much effort is put into generalizing results. by experience,theorists pick up a feel for the kinds of result that can be generalized andthe kinds that cannot be. the main way of making this distinction, i think,is to examine the links between the assumptions of a model and its results,and to try to nd out which assumptions are (as theorists say) doing thework . if a mod el has already been presented in a somewhat general way, it is often useful to strip it down to its simplest form, and then to see whichassumptions are most closely associated with the derivation of the relevantresult. 17

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 500 robert sugden inboth akerlofs and schellings models, there are good reasons to think that most of the simplifying assumptions are orthogonal to the dimensionon which the model works: these are simplifying assumptions which couldbe changed or generalized without aff ecting the qualitative results. in many cases, akerlof argues exactly this. recall, for example, his discussion of riskneutrality. akerlof could have assumed risk aversion instead, which wouldhave made the model much less easy to work with; but there does not seemtobe any way in which the major qualitative conclusions are being driven bythe assumption of risk neutrality. similarly, in the case of schellings model, the checkerboard layout seems to have nothing particular to do withthe tendency for segregation. schelling is condent enough to invite thereader to try different shapes of boards, and might easily have suggested different tessellations (such as triangles or hexagons). notice how this mode of reasoning remains in the world of models which may help to explain why theorists feel comfortable with it. it makes inductiveinferences from one or a small number of models to models in general. for example: having experimented with schellings checkerboard model with various parameter values, i have found that the regularity described byschelling persistently occurs. having read schelling and having thoughtabout these results, i think i have some feel for why this regularity occurs;but i cannot give any proof that it must occur (or even that it must occur with high probability). my condence that i would nd similar results were i touse different parameter values is an inductive inference. i also feel condent(although not quite as condent as in the previous case) that i would ndsimilar results if i used triangles or hexagons instead of squares. this is aninductive inference too. obviously, however, it cannot be enough to stay in the world of models. if the theorist is to make claims about the real world, there has to be some linkbetween those two worlds. for example, it is not enough to be convincedthat what schelling has shown us to be true of checkerboard cities is alsotrue of other modelcities: we have to be convinced that it is true of real cities. wehave to think something like the following: if what schelling has shown us is true of checkerboard cities, then it will probably tend to be true of citiesin general. what makes that inductive inference credible? 11. justifying induction: credible worlds inductive reasoning works by nding some regularity r in some specic collecti on of observations x1,...,xn,and then inferring that the same reg- ularity will probably be found throughout a general set of phenomena s,

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 501 which contains not only x1,...,xnbut also other elements which have not yetbeen observed. for example, x1,...,xnmight be the ndifferent ver- sions of schellings checkerboard city that i have so far experimented with, rmight be the emergence of segregation in model cities, and s might be the set of all checkerboard cities. having found r in the n particular cities,iinfer that this is a property of checkerboard cities in general. unavoidably, inductive reasoning depends on prior concepts of similarity: wehave to be able to interpret s as the denition of some relevant orsalient respect in which x 1,...,xnare similar. many of the philosophical puzzles surrounding induction stem from the difculty of justifying any criterion ofsimilarity. 18obviously, i am not going to solve these deep puzzles towards the end of a paper about models in economics.19formypurposes, what is important is this: if we are to make inductive inferences from the worldof a model to the real world, we must recognize some signicant similaritybetween those two worlds. ifweinterpret akerlof and schelling as using schema 1 or schema 2 (see section 7), it might be said that this similarity is simply the set of causal factors f: what the two worlds have in common is that those factors arepresent in both. t o put this another way, the real world is equivalent toan immensely complicated model: it is the limiting case of the process ofreplacing the simplifying assumptions of the original model with increas- ingly realistic specications. if (as i argued in section 10)wecan legitimately make inductive inferences from a simple model to slightly more complexvariants, then we must also have some warrant for making inferences to muchmore complex variants, and hence also to the real world. neverthe- less, the enormous difference in complexity between the real world and anymodel we can hope to analyse and hence the apparent lack of similaritybetween the two suggests that we ought to be very cautious about makinginferences from the latter to the former. so what might increase our condence in such inferences? i want to suggest that we can have more condence in them, the greater the extenttowhich we can understand the relevant model as a description of how the world could be . letmeexplain. inductive inferences are most commonly used to take us from one part of the real world to another. for example, suppose we observeracial segregation in the housing markets of baltimore, philadelphia, new york,detroit, t oledo, buffalo and pittsburgh. then we might make the inductive inference that segregation is a characteristic of large industrialcities of the north-eastern usa, and so form the expectation that therewill be segregation in say, cleveland. presumably, the thought behind this

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 502 robert sugden inference is that the forces at work in the cleveland housing market, whatever these may be, are likely to be broadly similar to those at work in other largeindustrial cities in north east usa. thus, a property that is true for thosecities in general is likely to be true for cleveland in particular. one wayof describing this inference is to say that each of the housing markets ofbaltimore, philadelphia, new y ork, etc. constitutes a model of the forces at workin large industrial north-eastern us cities. these, of course, are natural models, as contrasted with theoretical models created in the minds of social scientists. but if we can make inductive inferences from natural models,why not from theoretical ones? is the geography of cleveland any more likethe geography of baltimore or philadelphia than it is like the geography ofschellings checkerboard city? 20 what schelling has done is to construct a set of imaginary cities, whose workings we can easily understand. in these cities, racial segregation evolves only if people have preferences about the racial mix of their neighbours,but strong segregation evolves even if those preferences are quite mild. inthese imaginary cities, we also nd that the spatial boundaries betweenthe races tend to move over time, while segregation is preserved. we areinvited to make the inductive inference that similar causal processes applyin real multi-ethnic cities. we now look at such cities. here too we ndstrong spatial segregation between ethnic groups, and here too we nd thatthe boundaries between groups move over time. since the same effects arefound in both real and imaginary cities, it is at least credible to suppose thatthe same causes are responsible. thus, we have been given some reason tothink that segregation in real cities is cause dbypreferences for segregation, and that the extent of segregation is invariant to changes in the strength ofthose preferences. compare akerlof. akerlof has constructed two variants of an imaginary used-car market. in one variant, buyers and sellers have the same imperfectinformation about the quality of cars, and trade takes place quite normally.inthe other variant, sellers know more than buyers, and no trade takes place at all. when we think about how these markets work, it becomes credible tosuppose that many variant imaginary markets can be constructed, and thatthese share the common feature that, ceteris paribus ,the volume of trade falls as information becomes less symmetric. we are invited to make theinductive inference that similar causal processes apply in real markets, withsimilar effects. thus in real markets too, ceteris paribus ,the volume of trade is positively related to the symmetry of information. wegain condence in such inductive inferences, i suggest, by being able tosee the relevant models as instances of some category, some of whose

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 503 instances actually exist in the real world. thus, we see schellings checker- board cities as possible cities ,alongside real cities like new y ork and philadel- phia. we see akerlofs used-car market as a possible market ,alongside real markets such as the real market for used cars in a particular city, or the mar-ketfor a particular type of insurance. we recognize the signicance of the similarity between model cities and real cities, or between model marketsand real markets, by accepting that the model world could be real that it describes a state of affairs that is credible ,given what we know (or think weknow) about the general laws governing events in the real world. on this view, the model is not so much an abstraction from reality as a parallelreality. the model world is not constructed by starting with the real world and stripping out complicating factors: although the model world is simplerthan the real world, the one is not a simplication of the other. credibility in models is, i think, rather like credibility in realistic novels. inarealistic novel, the characters and locations are imaginary, but the author has to convince us that they are credible that there could be people andplaces like those in the novel. as events occur in the novel, we should havethe sense that these are natural outcomes of the way the characters think andbehave, and of the way the world works. we judge the author to have failedif we nd a person acting out of character, or if we nd an anachronismin a historical novel: these are things that couldnt have happened. but we do not demand that the events of the novel did happen, or even that theyare simplied representations of what really happened. (simplication and isolation are allowed, of course; we do not expect to be told everything thatthe characters do or think. but what is being simplied is not the worldof actual events, but the world imagined by the author.) we can praise anovel for being true to life while accepting that every event within it isctional, as when we recognize aspec ts of its characters as typical of people weknow. when a novel has this form of truth, we can even use it to explore what would happen if ...? questions, in something like the same way that economists can use models. by following the characters reactions to eventsthat we have not ourselves experienced, we may gain insights into how wewould react in similar circumstances. 21 butthe reader will expect more than analogy. the obvious question that i have to answer is: what constitutes credibility in economic models? i cannotgiveanything remotely like a complete answer; the best i can offer are a few criteria that have guided me in my own work as a modeller, and which areexemplied in the economic models that i most admire. forme, one important dimension of credibility is coherence. everyone recognizes that a theoretical model has to be logically coherent, but i mean

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 504 robert sugden something more than this. the assumptions of a good model cohere in the broader sense that they t naturally together. for example, some economicmodels assume that agents are well-in formed and highly rational, while oth- ers assume that agents are poorly-informed and follow rough rules of thumb.which type of model is more useful in explaining particular phenomena is a matter of judgement. but a model which uses an apparently arbitrary mix ofthe two kinds of assumption assuming hyper-rationality in one context andbounded rationality in another has the same kind of fault as a novel in whichsomeone acts out of character. if a model lacks coherence, its results cannotbe seen to follow naturally from a clear conception of how the world might be;this prompts the suspicion that the assumptions have been cobbled togethertogenerate predetermined results. adhocmodels of this kind may be com- monplace in economics journals, but if they are, that does not justify them. foramodel to have credibility, it is not enough that its assumptions cohere with one another; they must also cohere with what is known about causal processes in the real world. thus, akerlofs assumption that prices tend totheir market-clearing levels is justied by evidence from a wide range ofnatural and laboratory markets. schellings assumption that many people have at least mildly segregationist pre ferences is justied by psychological and sociological evidence, and coheres with common intuition and experi-ence. however, it is not necessary that the assumptions of the model cor-respond with or even with a simplication of any particular real-world situation. thus, we should not object to akerlofs assumption that tradersutility functions are additively separable in money and the quality of cars,or his assumption that cars are worth exactly 50 per cent more to traders ofone type than they are to traders of another. these are restrictive assump- tions, but they seem adequately representative of people who trade cars in the real world. in the same way, the author of a novel might choose to callher principal character frank, make him 48 years old, and x his home townas ipswich. if the logic of the novel requires only that the principal characteris middle-aged, male and english, there is a sense in which this specicationis highly restrictive; but the character has to have some name, some age, and some home town, and this particular specication is adequately representa- tive of middle-aged english men (whereas, say, naming the character duckbill platypus is not). akerlof in particular puts a lot of effort into making his model credible in the sense i have tried to describe. the world of his model is much moreuniform and regular than the real world, but akerlof clearly wants us tothink that there could be a used-car market which was like his model. the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 505 cars and traders of his model are not just primitives in a formal deductive system. they are, i suggest, cars which are likereal cars, and traders which are likereal traders, inhabiting a world whic hakerlof has imagined, but which is sufciently close to the real world that we can imagine its being real. recallthe sentence in which akerlof seems to slip between talking about the realused-car market and talking about his model: the fact that such slippage ispossible may be an indication that akerlof has come to think of his modelas if it were real. atrst sight, schelling seems rather less concerned to make us believe in his model world as a possible reality. instead of following akerlofs strategyof basing his model on one typical case, schelling almost always refers to thetwo types of actor in his model as dimes and pennies . but this is perhapsdictated by schellings strategy of asking the reader to perform the actionsin the model: he has to say now move that dime rather than that dime nowmoves . possibly, too, it reects an embarrassment about dealing directly withthe issue of racial prejudice. but when schelling describes the laws of motionof these coins, it is clear that we are expected to think of them as people.forexample, one of his suggestions is that we can postulate that every dime wants at least half its neighbours to be dimes, every penny wants a thirdof its neighbours to be pennies, and any dime or penny whose immediateneighbourhood does not meet these conditions gets up and moves (pp. 147148). or again, ofcially referring to a dime or penny in a world of dimesand pennies: he is content or discontent with his neighbourhood accordingtothe colours of the occupants of those eight surrounding squares ... (p. 148). even allowing for the fact that the use of he and colour ratherthan it and type of coin are probably slips, it is surely obvious that schellingwants us to think of the dimes and pennies as people of two groups whohave some embarrassment about being together. similarly, we are expectedtothink of the checkerboard as a city (or some other social space, such as a dining room). further, we are encouraged to think of these peoples attitudestoone another as credible and understandable even forgivable (recall the passage about mixed tables in the cafeteria, which precedes the checkerboardmodel). what schelling has constructed is a model city, inhabited by peoplewho are likereal people. 12. conclusion ihavereferred several times to a puzzling common feature of the two papers. both authors seem to want to make empirical claims about properties of

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 506 robert sugden the real world, and to want to argue that these claims are supported by their models. but on closer inspection of the texts, it is difcult to nd anyexplicit connection being made between the models and the real world. although both authors discuss real-world phenomena, neither seems pre-pared to endorse any specic inferen cefrom his model, still less to propose an explicit hypothesis which could be tested. isuggest that the explanation of this puzzle is that akerlof and schelling are engaged in a kind of theorizing the usefulness of which depends oninductive inferences from the world of models to the real world. everyonemakes inductive inferences, but no one has really succeeded in justifyingthem. thus, it should not be surprising if economists leave gaps in theirexplicit reasoning at those places where inductive inferences are required, and rely on their readers using their own intuitions to cross those gaps. norshould it be surprising if economists use rhetorical devices which tend tohide these gaps from view. nevertheless, the gap between model and real world has to be bridged. ifam odel is genuinely to tell us something, however limited, about the real world, it cannot be just adescription of a self-contained imaginary world. and yet theoretical models in economics often aredescriptions of self-contained and imaginary worlds. these worlds have not been formedmerely by abstracting key features from the real world; in important respects,they hav eb e e n constructed bytheir authors. the suggestion of this paper is that the gap between model world and real world can be lled by inductive inference. on this account, models are not internally consistent sets of uninterpreted theorems; but neither arethey simplied or abstracted or exaggerated descriptions of the real world.they describe credible counterfactual worlds. this credibility gives us somewarrant for making inductive inferences from model to real world. acknowledgements aprevious version of this paper was prepared for the conference fact or fiction? perspectives on realism and economics at the erasmus institute for philosophy and economics, rotterdam, in november 1997. the paper hasbeen much improved as a result of the discussion at that conference. iparticularly thank nancy cartwright, stephan hartmann, daniel hausman,maarten janssen, uskali m aki, mary morgan and chris starmer for advice. idid most of the work on the paper while visiting the centre for applied ethics at the university of british columbia, for whose hospitality i am grateful. subsequent work was supported by the leverhulme trust.

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 507 notes 1.butitwas not immediately recognized as a major contribution: it was turned down three times before being accepted for publication. mark blaug ( 1997 ) uses this fact to suggest that akerlofs paper is the exception which proves the rule the rule being that modern economics is becoming an intellectual game played for its own sake and not for its prac tical consequences , creating models which are scandalously unrepresentative of any recognizable economic system (pp. 24). however, he does not explain why akerlof is to be acquitted of thischarge. 2.analternative reading is possible. akerlof never claims outright that the pure joy explanation is false, or that his own explanation is correct only that itis different . so could it be that he doesnt want to make any such claims? insection 3, i consider and reject the suggestion that akerlof is not claiming toexplain any features of the real world. 3.akerlof deals with this problem to some degree by sketching a model withfour discrete types of car. (this sketch is contained in the passage beginningsup pose....)inthe four-types model, there is a market in bad used cars but not in good ones. however, this model is not developed in any detail; it servesas a kind of appetizer for the main model, in which no trade takes place at all. 4.asaresult of presenting this paper, i have discovered that schellings model is muchmore widely known and admired than i had imagined. it has not had the obvious inuence on economics that akerlofs paper has, but it clearly appealstomethodologically-inclined economists. 5.inpassing, i must record my puzzlement at the two-way classication of colours or races which seems to be a social fact in america, despite the continuity of theactual spectra of skin colour, hair type and other supposed racial markers. theconvention, i take it, is that anyone of mixed african and european parentage, whatever that mix, is black unless he or she can pass as pure european. 6.when i have presented this paper, i have been surprised at how many economists are inclined towards this interpretation. 7.arrow(1951: 45) hints at this interpretation when, as part of the introduction tohis presentation of the theorem, he says that welfare economists need to check that the value judgements they invoke are mutually compatible. he goes on: bergson considers it possible to establish an ordering of social states whichis based on the indifference maps of individuals, and samuelson has agreed .arrows form of social choice theory investigates whether this is indeed possible. 8.this interpretation of akerlofs model was suggested to me by daniel hausman.hausman also suggested the counter-example interpretation of schellings model, discussed in the next paragraph. 9.hereiamusing story in the sense which mccloskey ( 1983 :505) correctly identies as standard usage among economic theorists: an extended exampleof the economic reasoning underlying the mathematics [of a theory], oftenasimplied version of the situation in the real world that the mathematics is meant to characterize . gibbard and varian ( 1978 )use story in a similar way (see section 6). morgan ( 1997 )has a quite different concept of a story. for morgan, models are inert mechanisms which need to be cranked by some external event

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 508 robert sugden in order to set them in motion; a story is a description of that event and of how its impact is transmitted through the model. morgans approach conates twodistinctions static dynamic and model story which i prefer to keep separate. 10.early astronomy provides a classic example of the conict between instrumen-talism and realism. the only available observations were of the movements ofpoints and areas of light across the sky. highly accurate predictions of thesemovements could be made by using theories based on apparently fantastic and(at the time) completely unveriable assumptions about how the workings ofthe universe might look, viewed from outside. with hindsight, we know thatsome of these fantastic assumptions proved to be true (which supports realism),while others proved false (which supports instrumentalism). 11.the idea that there might be some value in predicting the consumption decisionsof individual consumers would perhaps not occur to an economist in the 1950sor 1960s, when the instrumentalist defence of neoclassical theory was mostpopular. at that time, there were no practicable means to collect or to analyseindividual-level data. developments in retailing and in information technologyare now opening up the possibility of making protable use of predictions aboutthe decisions of individual consumers. 12.hausman adds the qualication that a great deal of theoretical work in eco- nomics is concerned with conceptual exploration, not with empirical theorizing(p. 221). in section 4, i considered and rejected the suggestion that akerlofsand schellings models could be interpreted as conceptual explanation. 13.the parallel between models and experiments is explored in detail by guala(1999 ). 14.this interpretation was suggested to me by maarten janssen. 15.cartwright ( 1998 )explores the role of this kind of reasoning in mills scientic method. 16.there is an analogy in experimental method. think of how experimental biolo-gists use fruit ies to test and rene hypotheses about biological evolution. the hypotheses in which the biologists are interested are intended to apply to many species other than fruit ies sometimes, for example, to humans. fruit iesare used because they are easy to keep in the laboratory and breed very quickly.butfruit ies are not simplied versions of humans, arrived at by isolating certain key features. rather, the biologists claim is that certain fundamental evolutionary mechanisms are common to humans and fruit ies. 17.akerlof and schelling are perhaps atypical in that they are satised to presentsimple, imaginative models, leaving it to the technicians of economic theorytoproduce the generalizations. in contrast, most theorists feel compelled to present their models in the most general form they can. if i am right about theimportance of stripping down a model in order to judge how generalizable it is,it is at least arguable that akerlofs and schellings way of presenting models isthe more informative. 18.the grue problem discovered by nelson goodman ( 1954 )isparticularly sig- nicant and intractable. 19.forwhat it is worth, i am inclined to agree with david humes ( 1740 ,b o o k1 , part3, pp. 69179) original diagnosis: that induction is grounded in associations of ideas that the human mind nds natural. if that diagnosis is correct, the

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 509 concepts of similarity which underpin inductive reasoning may be capable of being explained in psychological terms, but not of being justied as rational. 20.notice that one implication of thinking in this way is that regularities within the real world (here, across cities which in many respects are very different fromone another) can give us grounds for greater condence in inductive inferencesfrom a model to the real world. the fact that racial segregation is common to somany different cities suggests that its causes are not to be found in any of thosedimensions on which they can be differentiated. 21.istill recall the deep impression made on me as a teenager by stan barstows a kind of loving. the main character of this classic of northern english realistic ction is a very ordinary young man who gets his girlfriend pregnant and is thenpushed into an unwanted marriage. reading this book, i gained a vivid sense ofthe possible consequences for me of actions that i could imagine myself taking. refere nces akerlof, g. a. (1970) the market for lemons: quality uncertainty and the market mechanism , quarterly journal of economics 84: 488500. arrow, k. j. (1963) social choice and individual values ,2nd edn, new haven, ct: y ale university press. (1st edn 1951.) blaug, m. (1997) ugly currents in modern economics , paper presented at conference fact or fiction? perspectives on realism and economics ,erasmus university, rotterdam, november 1997, and in uskali m aki (ed.) fact and fiction. foundational perspectives on economics and the economy ,forthcoming. cartwright, n. (1998) capacities , forthcoming in the handbook of methodology , aldershot: edward elgar. gibbard, a. and varian, h. (1978) economic models , journal of philosophy 75: 664677. goodman, n. (1954) fact, fiction, and forecast ,cambridge, ma: harvard university press. guala, f. (1999) economics and the laboratory , ph.d thesis, london school of eco- nomics and political science. hausman, d. m. (1992) the inexact and separate science of economics ,cambridge: cambridge university press. hume, d. (1740) atreatise of human nature ,page references to 1978 edn, oxford: clarendon press. mccloskey, d. (1983) the rhetoric of economies , journal of economic literature 21: 481517. maki, u. (1992) on the method of isolation in economics , poznanstudies in the philosophy of the sciences and the humanities 26: 316351. maki, u. (1994) isolation, idealization and truth in economics , poznanstudies in the philosophy of the sciences and the humanities 38: 147168. mill, j. s. (1843) as y s t e mo fl o g i c ,page references to 1967 edn, london: longman. morgan, m. s. (1997) models, stories and the economic world , paper presentepre- sented at conference fact or fiction? perspectives on realism and economics ,e rasmus university, rotterdam, november 1997, and in uskali m aki (ed.) fact and fiction. foundational perspectives on economics and the economy ,forthcoming. schelling, t. c. (1978) micr omotives and macrobehaviour ,n e wy o r k :n o r t o n .

p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 510

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology alt, j., m. levi, and e.ostrom, eds. competition and cooperation: conversations with nobelists about economics and political science. newyork: russell sage foundation, 1999. arro w, k. social choice and individual values .new y ork: wiley, 1963. aulin, a. the origins of economic growth: the fundamental interaction between material and nonmaterial values .heidelberg and new y ork: springer, 1997. backhouse, r. truth and progress in economic knowledge (advances in economic method- ology) .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1997. .explorations in economic methodology .london: routledge, 1998. backhouse, r., ed. newdirections in economic methodology .london: routledge, 1994. .methodology of economics .london: routledge, 1997. backhouse, r., d. hausman, and u. m aki, eds. economics and methodology: crossing boundaries .london: palgrave macmillan, 1998. backhouse, r., and b. bateman, eds. the cambridge companion to keynes .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2006. balak, b. mccloskeys rhetoric: discourse ethics in economics. london: routledge, 2006. balzer, w., and b. hamminga, eds. philosophy of economics .d o r d r e c ht: kluwer-nijhoff, 1989. barker, d., and e. kuiper, eds. toward a feminist philosophy of economics .l o n d o n : routledge, 2003. barnes, t. logicsofdislocation: models, metaphors, and meanings of economic space .n e w yorkand london: guilford press, 1996. becker, g. the economic approach to human behavior .chicago: university of chicago press, 1976. toprovide a comprehensive bibliography of books and articles is impossible. there is a useful bibliography of works on economic methodology through 1988 (redman 1989).essays on economic methodology are indexed in the journal of economic literature and in the index of economic articles in journal and collective volumes under the number 036 before 1991 and under the number b4 since then. economics and philosophy and the journal of economic methodology are the best places to start for recent essays on economic methodology. books on economics and ethics and on the theory of rationality are included in this bibliography only if they have some substantial methodological content. 511

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 512 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology bell, d., and i. kristol, eds. the crisis in economic theory .new y ork: basic books, 1981. bhaskar, r., m. archer, a. collier, t. lawson, and a. norrie, eds. critical realism . london: routledge, 1998. birner, j. strategies and programmes in capital theory: a contribution to the methodology oftheory development .dissertation, university of amsterdam, 1990. blaug, m. the cambridge revolution. success or failure? london: institute of economic affairs, 1975. .economic theory in retrospect .3rded. cambridge: cambridge university press, 1978. .amethodological appraisal of marxian economics .amsterdam: north-holland, 1980a. .the methodology of economics: or how economists explain .cambridge: cam- bridge university press, 1980b; 2nd ed. 1992. boehm, s. et al., eds. isthere progress in economics? knowledge, truth and the history of economic thought .cheltenham: edward elgar, 2002. boland, l. the foundations of economic method .london: allen unwin, 1982. .methodology for a new microeconomics .boston: allen unwin, 1986. .the methodology of economic model building: methodology after samuelson . london: routledge, 1989. .critical economic methodology: a personal odyssey .london: routledge, 1997. bonar, j. philosophy and political economy (1893). rpt. london: allen unwin, 1967. boulding, k. economics as a science .new y ork: mcgraw-hill, 1970. boylan, t., and p . ogorman. beyond rhetoric and realism in economics: towards a reformulation of economic methodology .london: routledge, 1995. brennan, g., h. kliemt, and r. t ollison, eds. method and morals in constitutional economics: essays in honor of james m. buchanan .new y ork: springer, 2002. bromley, d. sufcient reason: volitional pragmatism and the meaning of economic insti- tutions .princeton: princeton university press, 2006. cairnes, j. the character and logical method of political economy .2nd ed. (1875). rpt. newyork: a. m. kelley, 1965. caldwell, b. beyond positivism: economic methodology in the twentieth century .l o n d o n : allen unwin, 1982. caldwell, b., ed. appraisal and criticism in economics .london: allen unwin, 1984. .the philosophy and methodology of economics .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1993. caplin, a., and a. schotter, eds. perspectives on the future of economics: positive and normative foundations .oxford: oxford university press, 2007. cory, g. the consilient brain: the bioneurological basis of economics, society, and politics . dordrecht: kluwer, 2004. cullenberg, s., j. amariglio, and f. ruccio, eds. postmodernism, economics, and knowl- edge.london: routledge, 2001. dahiya, s., ed. the current state of economic science. vol. 1. teaching of economics, methodology, mathematical and quantitative methods .rohtak, india: spellbound, 1999. dautume, a., and j. cartelier, eds. iseconomics becoming a hard science? cheltenham: edward elgar, 1997. davis, j. theory of the individual in economics .london: routledge, 2003.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology 513 davis, j., ed. recent developments in economic methodology .cheltenham: edward elgar, 2006. davis, j., d. w. hands, and u. m aki, eds. the handbook of economic methodology . cheltenham: edward elgar, 1998. davis, j., a. marciano, and j. runde, eds. the elgar companion to economic and philos- ophy .cheltenham: edward elgar, 2004. delorme, r., and k. dopfer, eds. the political economy of diversity: evolutionary per- spectives on economic order and disorder .aldershot: ashgate, 1994. de marchi, n., ed. the popperian legacy in economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1988. .post-popperian methodology of economics: recovering practice .boston: kluwer, 1992. de marchi, d., and m. blaug, eds. appraising modern economics: studies in the method- ology of scientic research programs .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1991. dennis, k., ed. rationality in economics: alternative perspectives .d o r d r echt: kluwer, 1998. diesing, p . science and ideology in the policy sciences .new y ork: aldine, 1982. dolan, e., ed. the foundations of modern austrian economics .kansas city, mo: sheed w ard, 1976. dopfer, k., ed. economics and philosophy: the evolutionary foundations of economics . cambridge: cambridge university press, 2005. dow, s. macroeconomic thought: a methodology approach .oxford: blackwell, 1985. .economic methodology: an inquiry .oxford: oxford university press, 2002. dyke, c. philosophy of economics .englewood cliffs, nj: prentice hall, 1981. eichne r, a., ed. why economics is not yet a science .armonk, ny: m. e. sharpe, pp. 205 41. elster, j. ulysses and the sirens: studies in rationality and irrationality .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1979. .sour grapes: studies in the subversion of rationality .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1983. .making sense of marx .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1985. elster, j., and j. roemer, eds. interpersonal comparisons of well-being .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1991. etzioni, a. the moral dimension: toward a new economics .new y ork: macmillan, 1988. fisher, r. the logic of economic discovery: neoclassical economics and the marginal revo lution .new y ork: new y ork university press, 1986. fleetwood, s., ed. critical realism in economics: development and debate .l o n d o n : routledge, 1999. foldvary, f., ed. beyond neoclassical economics: heterodox approaches to economic theory .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1996. fox, g.reason and reality in the methodologies of economics: an introduction . cheltenham: edward elgar, 1997. frankfurter, g., and e. mcgoun, eds. from individualism to the individual: ideology and inquiry in financial economics .aldershot: ashgate, 2002. fraser, l. economic thought and language. a critique of some fundamental concepts . london:a cb l a c k , 1937.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 514 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology frey, b. economics as a science of human behaviour: towards a new social science paradigm .2nd ed. dordrecht: kluwer, 1999. friedman, m. essays in positive economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1953. fullbr ook, e. ag uide to whats wrong with economics .new y ork: anthem press, 2004. fullbro ok, e., ed. intersubjectivity in economics: agents and structures .l o n d o n : rout- ledge, 2002. gani, m. foundations of economic science .dhaka, bangladesh and ontario: scholars, 2003. gronkvist, u. economic methodology: patterns of reasoning and the structure of theories . lund: university of lund, 1992. grossbard-shechtman, s., and c. clague, eds. the expansion of economics: toward a moreinclusive social science .armonk, ny: m. e. sharpe, 2002. guala, f. the methodology of experimental economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2005. gustafsson, b., c. knudsen, and u. m aki, eds. rationality, institutions and economic methodology .london: routledge, 1993. hahn, f., and m. hollis. philosophy and economic theory .o x ford: oxford university press, 1979. hamminga, b. neoclassical theory structure and theory development: an empirical- philosophical case study concerning the theory of international trade .boston: springer, 1983. hamminga, b., and n. demarchi, eds. idealization in economics .amsterdam: rodopi, 1994. hanappi, h. evolutionary economics: the evolutionary revolution in the social sciences . aldershot: ashgate, 1994. hands, d. w. testing, rationality and progress .totowa, nj: rowman and littleeld, 1992. .reection without rules: economic methodology and contemporary science theory .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2001. hausman, d. capital, prots and prices: an essay in the philosophy of economics .n e w york:columbia university press, 1981. .essays on philosophy and economic methodology .cambridge: cambridge uni- versity press, 1992a. .the inexact and separate science of economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1992b. hausman, d., and mcpherson, m. economic analysis and moral philosophy .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1996. .economic analysis, moral philosophy, and public policy .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2006. hayek, f. the counter-revolution of science: studies in the abuse of reason .glencoe, il: free press, 1952. henderson, w., t. dudley-evans, and r. backhouse, eds. economics and language . london: routledge, 1993. hicks, j. causality in economics .new y ork: basic books, 1979. hirsch, a., and n. de marchi. milton friedman: economics in theory and practice .a n n arbor: university of michigan press, 1990.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology 515 hirsch, f. the social limits to growth .cambridge, ma: harvard university press, 1976. hodg son, b. economics as moral science .heidelberg and new y ork: springer, 2001. hodg son, g. the evolution of institutional economics .london: routledge, 2004. hollis, m., and e. nell. rational economic man: a philosophical critique of neo-classical economics .london: cambridge university press, 1975. hood, w., and t. koopmans, eds. studies in econometric method .n e wy o r k :j ohn wiley, 1953. hook, s., ed. human values and economic policy .new y ork: new y ork university press, 1967. hoover, k. the new classical macroeconomics: a sceptical inquiry .oxford: basil black- well, 1988. .causality in macroeconomics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2001. .the methodology of empirical macroeconomics .cambridge: cambridge univer- sity press, 2001. hoover, k., and s. sheffrin, eds. monetarism and the methodology of economics: essays in honour of thomas mayer .aldershot: ashgate, 1995. humphries, j., ed. gender and economics. aldershot: edward elgar, 1995. hutchison, t. the signicance and basic postulates of economics (1938). rpt. with a new preface. new y ork: a. m. kelley, 1960. .knowledge and ignorance in economics .chicago: university of chicago press, 1977. .on revolutions and progress in economic knowledge .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1978. .the politics and philosophy of economics: marxians, keynesians and austrians . oxford: blackwell, 1981. .the uses and abuses of economics: contentious essays on history and method . london: routledge, 1994. .on the methodology of economics and the formalist revolution .cheltenham: edward elgar, 2000. kamarck, a. economics and the real world .philadelphia: university of pennsylvania press, 1983. .economics for the twenty-first century: the economics of the economist-fox . aldershot: ashgate, 2001. katzner, d. time, ignorance, and uncertainty in economic models .a n na r b o r: university of michigan press, 1998. katouzian, h. ideology and method in economics .new y ork: new y ork university press, 1980. kaufmann, f. methodology of the social sciences .london: oxford university press, 1944. keen, s. debunking economics: the naked emperor of the social sciences .n e wy o r k :s t . martins press, 2001. keynes, j. n. the scope and method of political economy (4th ed. 1917). rpt. new y ork: a. m. kelley, 1955. kincaid, h. philosophical foundations of the social sciences: analyzing controversies in social research .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1996. kirzner, i. the economic point of view .2nd ed. kansas city, mo: sheed ward, 1976. kirzner, i., ed. method, process and austrian economics: essays in honour of ludwig von mises .lexington, ma: d. c. heath, 1982.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 516 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology klamer, a. conversations with economists: new classical economists and opponents speak out on the current controversy in macroeconomics .totowa, nj: rowman and allan- held, 1984. klamer, a., d. mccloskey, and r. solow, eds. the consequences of economic rhetoric . newyork: cambridge university press, 1988. klant, j. the rules of the game .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1984. koopmans, t. three essays on the state of economic science .n e wy o r k :m cgraw-hill, 1956. kornai, j. anti-equilibrium: on economic systems theory and the tasks of research . amsterdam: north holland, 1971. koslowski, p ., ed. economics and philosophy .tubingen: j.c.b. mohr, 1985. .sociobiology and bioeconomics: the theory of evolution in biological and eco- nomic theory .heidelberg and new y ork: springer, 1999. krup p, s., ed. the structure of economic science .englewood cliffs: prentice hall, 1966. lapavitsas, c. social foundations of markets, money and credit. london: routledge, 2003. latsis, s., ed. method and appraisal in economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1976. lavoie, d., ed. economics and hermeneutics .london: routledge, 1991. lawson, t. economics and reality .london: routledge, 1997. .reorienting economics. london: routledge, 2003. lawson, t., and h. pesaran. keynes economics: methodological issues .beckenham, uk: croom helm, 1985. leibe nstein, h. beyond economic man: a new foundation for economics .cambridge, ma: harvard university press, 1976. levine, a., e. sober, and e. wright. reconstructing marxism .london: verso, 1992. lewis, p ., ed. transforming economics .london: routledge, 2004. little, d., ed. on the reliability of economic models: essays in the philosophy of economics . boston: kluwer, 1993. loasby, b. choice, complexity and ignorance .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1976. .the mind and method of the economist: a critical appraisal of major economists in the 20th century .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1989. lowe, a. on economic knowledge. toward a science of political economics .n e wy o r k : harper row, 1965. mcclelland, p . causal explanation and model building in history, economics and the new economic history .ithaca, ny: cornell university press, 1975. mccle nnen, e. rationality and dynamic choice: foundational explorations .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1990. mccloskey, d. the rhetoric of economics .madison: university of wisconsin press, 1985. .ifyoure so smart: the narrative of economic expertise .chicago: university of chicago press, 1990. .knowledge and persuasion in economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1994. .the vices of economists the virtues of the bourgeoisie .amsterdam: amsterdam university press, 1996.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology 517 machlup, f. essays on economic semantics .ed. m. miller. englewood cliffs: prentice hall, 1963. .methodology of economics and other social sciences .new y ork: academic press, 1978. mackay ,a .arrows theorem: the paradox of social choice. a case study in the philosophy ofeconomics .new haven, ct: y ale university press, 1980. mckenzie, r. the limits of economic science .boston: kluwer, 1983. marr, w., and b. raj, eds. howeconomists explain: a reader in methodology .lanham, md: university press of america, 1983. mayer, t. truth versus precision in economics .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1993. mayer, t., k. hoove r, and s. sheffrin, eds. monetarism and the methodology of economics: essays in honour of thomas mayer .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1995. maki, u. studies in realism and explanation in economics .helsinki: suomalainen tiedeakatemia, 1990. .realism and economic methodology .london: routledge, 2007. maki, u., ed. the economic world view: studies in the ontology of economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2001. .fact and fiction in economics: models, realism and social construction . cambridge: cambridge university press, 2003. mede ma, s., ed. coasean economics: law and economics and the new institutional eco- nomics .dordrecht: kluwer, 1998. meidinger, c. science economique: questions de m ethode .paris: vuibert, 1994. menger ,c . problems of economics and sociology (1883). ed. l. schneider, tr. f. nock. urbana: university of illinois press, 1963. mill, j .s .as y s t e mo fl o g i c (1843). rpt. london: longmans, green co., 1949. mirowski, p . against mechanism: protecting economics from science .t o t o wa, nj: rowman and littleeld, 1988. .moreheat than light .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1990. .machine dreams: economics becomes a cyborg science .cambridge: cambridge university press, 2001. .the effortless economy of science? durham, nc: duke university press, 2004. mirowski, p ., ed. the reconstruction of economic theory .boston: kluwer, 1986. mises, l. von. human action. a treatise on economics .n e wh a ven, ct: y ale university press, 1949. .epistemological problems of economics .tr.g. reisman. new y ork: new y ork university press, 1981. .the ultimate foundation of economic science: an essay on method .2nd ed. kansas city, mo: sheed andrews, 1978. morg an, m. history of econometric ideas .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1990. mosini, v . ed. equilibrium in economics .london: routledge, 2007. mulberg, j. social limits to economic theory .london: routledge, 1995. myrdal, g. the political element in the development of economic thought .t r .p .s t reeten. cambridge, ma: harvard university press, 1955. .objectivit yi ns o c ial research .london: duckworth, 1970. nelson, r. economics as religion: from samuelson to chicago and beyond .college station: pennsylvania state university press, 2001.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 518 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology nelson, r., and s. winter. anevolutionary theory of economic change .cambridge, ma: harvard university press, 1982. neube rg, l. conceptual anomalies in economics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1988. osullivan, p . economic methodology and freedom to choose .l o n d o n: allen unwin, 1987. oakley, a. reconstructing economic theory: the problem of human agency .cheltenham: edward elgar, 2002. ochangco, a. rationality in economic thought: methodological ideas on the history of political economy .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1999. omerod, p . the death of economics .new y ork: wiley, 1997. pani, n. inclusive economics: gandhian method and contemporary policy .n e wd e lhi and london: sage publications, 2001. papandreou, a. economics as a science .chicago: lippincott, 1958. parson, t. the structure of social action .new y ork: mcgraw-hill, 1937, vol. 2. pheby, j. methodology and economics: a critical introduction .london: macmillan, 1988. pitt, j., ed. philosophy in economics .dordrecht: reidel, 1981. rappaport, s. models and reality in economics .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1998. reder, m. economics: the culture of a controversial science .chicago: university of chicago press, 1999. redman, d. economic methodology: a bibliography with references to works in the philosophy of science, 18601988 .new y ork: greenwood press, 1989. .economics and the philosophy of science .oxford: oxford university press, 1990. .the rise of political economy as a science: methodology and the classical economists .cambridge, ma: mit press, 1997. reiss, j. errorineconomics: towards a more evidence-based methodology .l o n d o n : routledge, 2007. robbins, l. anessay on the nature and signicance of economic science .2nd ed. london: macmillan, 1935. 3rd ed. 1983. robinson, j. economic philosophy .chicago: aldine, 1962. rosenberg, a. microeconomic laws: a philosophical analysis .pittsburgh: university of pittsburgh press, 1976. .economics mathematical politics or science of diminishing returns .chicago: university of chicago press, 1992. ross, d. economic theory and cognitive science: microexplanation .cambridge, ma: mit press, 2005. rothbard, m. the logic of action i: method, money, and the austrian school .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1997. rothschild, k. ethics and economic theory .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1993. .economic method, theory and policy: selected essays of kurt w. rothschild .ed. j.king. aldershot: ashgate, 1995. roy, s. philosophy of economics: on the scope of reason in economic inquiry .l o n d o n : routledge, 1991. ruccio, d., and j. amariglio. postmodern moments in modern economics .p rinceton: princeton university press, 2003. runde, j., and s. mizuhara, eds. the philosophy of keyness economics: probability, uncer- tainty and convention .london: routledge, 2003.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology 519 salanti, a., and e. screpanti, eds. pluralism in economics: new perspectives in history and methodology .cheltenham: edward elgar, 1997. samuels, w., ed. the methodology of economic thought: critical papers from the journal ofeconomic thought [issues] .new brunswick, nj: transaction books, 1980. .history and methodology of economics .greenwich, ct: jai press, 1987. .economics as discourse .boston: kluwer, 1990. samuels, w., and j. biddle, eds. research in the history of economic thought and method- ology .vol. 16. london: jai press, 1998. samuelson, p . foundations of economic analysis .cambridge, ma: harvard university press, 1947. sassower, r. philosophy of economics: a critique of demarcation .lanham, md: university press of america, 1985. schoefer, s. the failures of economics: a diagnostic study .cambridge, ma: harvard university press, 1955. schrader, d. the corporation as anomaly .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1992. schumpeter, j. history of economic analysis .new y ork: oxford university press, 1954. sen, a. on ethics and economics .oxford: blackwell, 1987. senior, n. outline of the science of political economy (1836). rpt. new y ork: a. m. kelley, 1965. shackle, g. epistemics and economics: a critique of economic doctrines .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1972. shrader-frechette, k. science policy, ethics, and economic methodology: some problems oftechnology assessment and environmental-impact analysis .d o r d r e c ht: d. reidel, 1984. sidgwick, h. the scope and method of economic science (1885). rpt. new y ork: a. m. kelley, 1968. simon, h. models of man: social and rational .new y ork: wiley, 1957. .anempirically based microeconomics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1997. smy th, r., ed. essays in economic method .london: duckworth, 1962. sowell, t. knowledge and decisions .new y ork: basic books, 1980. staveren, i. van. values of economics .london: taylor and francis, 2005. stegm uller, w., w. balzer, and w. spohn, eds. philosophy of economics: proceedings, munich, july 1981 .new y ork: springer, 1982. stewart, i. reasoning and method in economics. an introduction to economic methodology . london: mcgraw-hill, 1979. stigum, b. econometrics and the philosophy of economics: theory data confrontations in economics .princeton: princeton university press, 2003. swedbe rg, r. economics and sociology redening their boundaries: conversations with economists and sociologists .princeton: princeton university press, 1990. verdon, m. keynes and the classics: a study in language, epistemology and mistaken identi ties.london: routledge, 1996. vickers, d. the tyranny of the market: a critique of theoretical foundations .a n na r bor: university of michigan press, 1995. .economics and ethics: an introduction to theory, institutions, and policy .l o n d o n : greenwood, praeger, 1997.

p1: jzp 9780521883504bib cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:33 520 selected bibliography of books on economic methodology vrom en, j. economic evolution .london: routledge, 1995. ward, b. whats wrong with economics? newyork: basic books, 1972. webe r, m. the methodology of the social sciences .tr.and ed. e. shils and h. finch. new york:macmillan, 1949. weintraub, e. general equilibrium analysis: studies in appraisal .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1985. .stabilizing dynamics .cambridge: cambridge university press, 1991. .howeconomics became a mathematical science .durham, nc: duke university press, 2002. wible, j. the economics of science: methodology and epistemology as if economics really mattered .london: routledge, 1998. wiles, p ., and g. and routh, eds. what is political economy? eight perspectives .o xford: basil blackwell, 1984. winston, g., and r. t eichgraeber, eds. the boundaries of economics .cambridge: cam- bridge university press, 1988. wiseman, j., ed. beyond positive economics? london: british association for the advance- ment of science, 1983. wong, s. the foundations of paul samuelsons revealed preference theory .l o n d o n : rout- ledge, 1978. yuengert, a. the boundaries of technique: ordering positive and normative concerns in economic research .lanham, md: lexington books, 2004. zein-elabdin, e., and s. charusheela, eds. postcolonialism meets economics .l o n d o n : routledge, 2003.

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 index aposteriori, 45,4367 ap r i o r i , 12,33,45,3026 abstract model, 161 accidental regularity, 9 ad hoc, 18,190,199n5 agency, 2767 aggregation, 3248 akerlof, george a., 404,460,462,47782, 48596,502,504 allen, peter m., 77 alienation, 10819 ambiguity-aversion, 3645,368,369f analytic method, 869 anomalies, 16 antirealism, 6 approximation, testability and, 17982 aristotle, 219,281,282,283,417 arrow, kenneth, 24,330,416,484 art, science v., 57,4201 assessment. seeevaluation assumptions, 46,54,15964.see also realism of assumptions falsity of, 157 implications as, 162,163 austrian economists, 12,21,26,31,32, 391 ayres, clarence, 407 bacon, francis, 47 barone, enrico, 209 barry, norman, 387 basic needs, 27980,288n30 basic statement, popperian falsicationism and, 18990,199n3 bayesian view, 17 becker, gary s., 409,422,461,466,467behavior, 75,132 causality and, 1012 explanatory theory and, 1007 behavioral economics, 3578,3638.see also neuroeconomics behaviorism, 3,8,30,84,85,3634 benhabib, jess, 359 bentham, jeremy, 26,238,329 bergmann, barbara, 469 bias, ideological, 211,213 bisin, alberto, 359 blinder, alan s., 4645 bohm-bawerk, eugen von, 823,21617 boland, lawrence, 184 boyle-charles law, 319 brain activity, 3601 brandenberger, adam, 342 cairncross, alec, 426 cairnes, john elliot, 81,437 cannan, edwin, 89 cantillon, richard, 23 capability approach, 27085 poverty and, 27981 capitalism, 23,29,712 cartwright, nancy, 35n5 ,315,508n15 cassel, gustav, 84,85 causality, 489,55 behavior and, 1012 culture and, 135 disturbing causes and, 312,4950, 512 econometrics, 299302 institutionalism and, 40810 ceteris paribus, 9,491,494 chamberlin, e., 170 521

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 522 index choice, 74,95,235,3623 cons umer, 24,357,358 relative position and, 25864 clark, john bates,129, 130 classical economics, 245,130,131 error underlying, knight on, 105 liberty and, 1056 transition to neoclassical from, 32 coase, ronald, 437 cobb-douglas utility function, 3267 commons, john r., 4067,409 comparison, 241 interpersonal, 23941,263,284 satisfaction, 2234,225n4 comp etition, 103 monopolistic, 153,167,169,170 perfect, 153,167,169 composite commodity theorem, 325 conclusions, premises and, 17981 concurrence of causes, 55 consequentialism, 253,2667 cons umer choice, 24,357,358 contingent-valuation surveys, 2567 cooley, thomas f., 303 correspondence rules, 10 cost-benet analysis, 25167 distribution issues and, 2545 measurement problems in, 2556 paretoimprovements and, 2438 costs, future, 2534 cournot, augustin, 317,3212,323 cowles commission, 174n11 175,303 criticism, 15 orthodox economics, friedman on, 1645 realism and, 4501 technical, 60 culture, 616,132,135,237 d-n model, 7,9 debreu, gerard, 24 deductive-nomological explanation (d-n model), 7,9 demand curve, 168,177n29 ,178n36 demarcation, 1219,18990 deontologists, consequentialists v., 2667 dewey, john, 21 diagrammatic analysis, 87 diminishing marginal utility, 26,27,70, 8992,98n32 diminishing relative utility, 92 diminishing returns, 25,78distribution, cost-benet analysis and, 2545 disturbing causes, 312,4950,512 dominated strategies, 3434 duhem, pierre, 45,191,199n7 ,3489,350 duhem-quine thesis, 3489,350 dworkin, ronald, 271,283 econometrics, 289,297311,316 as observation, 3069 economics. see also austrian economists ; english economists ;institutionalism ; political economy denition of, 735,321 hard v. soft, 456,458,4601 historical, 1001,1967 history of, 223 mainstream, problems of, 4435 neoclassical, 32,381,390,403,425 neuro-, 35673 normative, 1468,205,22734,230t , 23940,260 orthodox, friedman on, 1645 positive, 14654,1713,2347 realism and, 4378 of scale, 147 as science, 1,32,926 sub-areas of, 29 topics of, 46670 welfare, 2225,2289 edgeworth, francis y., 83,373 efciency, 24.see also pareto efciency improvements ellsberg paradox, 364 emergent properties, 320 empiricism, 8,12,33,60,87 endowment effect, 3456 english economists, 89,131 entrepreneurship theory, 3836 epistemological realism, 435 equality, 2245 equilibrium, 24,27,90,242,243,380,4023 equilibrium price theory, 103 estranged labor, 29,10819 ethical individualism, 2379 ethics, 104,253,2667 euclidean geometry, 12 evaluation capability approach to, 27085 demarcation and, 1219 value-objects and, 2723 evolution, institutionalism and, 405

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 index 523 exceptions, laws and, 567 exchange theory, 23,90,233 expected utility theory, 365 experimentation, 3,77,33350,492 endowment effect and, 3456 lessons from, 33748 reasons for, 3347 experimentum crucis, 47,48 explanation, 68 behavior and, 1007 explanatory individualism, 2345,317, 3214 exploitation, 2267 fallibilism, 436 falsicationism, 18993,1956,199n3 falsity, of assumptions, 157 feminism, 45471 fetter ,f . , 82 rms classifying, 1689 new theory of, 3589 fisher, irving, 98n32 ,172,373,402 free trade, 223,224 free will, 20,2734 friedman, milton, 6,33,143,1645,1836, 301,3578 frisch, ragnar, 99n32 ,306,318,332n3 future, 312,382 costs, 2534 galbraith, john kenneth, 407 gender, sex v., 456 general equilibrium, 24,27.see also equilibrium generalizations, 8,14,7686 classical economics, 245 history and, 767,80 mill on, 47 reality and, 869 german historical school, 30,61,82 gibbard, allan, 489,490,498,507n9 goods, scarcity of, 789 gossen, hermann heinrich, 83 gul, faruk, 372 haave lmo, trygve, 3012,3057 hamilton, walton, 399400,406 hands, d. wade, 143 harberger, arnold c., 422 harrod ,r.,2223hausman, daniel, 43940,441,442,44751, 452,484,4912 hedonic pricing, 2578 hegel, georg wilhelm, 121 hemenway ,d a v id,262 hempel ,c a r l,7 hicks, john, 77,98n31 ,243,2445,31516, 325,327 historical economics, 1001,1967 history, 223,68 generalizations and, 767,80 hobbes, thomas, 4589 hume, david, 4,13,23 hutchison, t erence, 33,143,189 hypotheses, 14951,1549,166, 174n11 175n11 auxiliary, 3489 ideal-type, 712,1678 ideology bias and, 211,213 keynes , 21718 marxist, 21617 meaning of, 20911 science and, 21120 smiths, 21416 vision and, 212,213,220 imperfect competition, 153 implications, 16470 analysis and, 93,95 assumptions as, 162,163 laws as describing, 867 impulse-control, 2646 imputation, 62,78 indeterminism, 856 indirect testing, assumptions in, 1624 individualism, 32,2347,316,317 ethical, 2379 ontological, 234,323 induction, 14,45 historical, 77 racial sorting model and, 496505 inductive-statistical model, 7 institutionalism, 30,88,1345,1369,3368, 399411 interdisciplinarity and, 4045 instrumentalism, 6,1834,4879 intentionality, 201 interdisciplinarity, 4045 interpersonal comparison, 23941,263,284 intervention, 31,243,299

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 524 index introspection, 91 inus conditions, 298,299 invariance, 3029 irrationalism, 17 isolation method, 4916 jevons, william stanley, 26,83,317,357,425 kaldor, nicholas, 243,2445 kant, immanuel, 4,12 kapte yn, arie, 263 keynes, john maynard, 278,145,21718,318 consequence of the peace ,217 keynes, john neville, 32,145 kirzner, israel, 3836,391 knight, frank, 20,32,105,301 koopmans, tjalling, 303 krugman, paul, 425 kuhn, thomas, 15,16,17,143,420 lachmann, ludwig m., 381 lakatos, imre, 15,1718,143 msrp of, 189,1948 popp er v., 1956,1978 language, theories as, 148 law(s), 911,62,689 boyle-charles, 319 diminishing marginal utility, 26,27,70, 8992,98n32 diminishing relative utility, 92 diminishing returns, 25,78 exceptions and, 567 implications and, 867 repeal of corn, 223 leisure, real income and, 734 leroy, stephen f., 303 lester, richard, 1756n13 ,183 levin, lee b., 460 lewis, david, 433 liberty, classical economics and, 1056 limited strategic thinking, 3667 logical positivism, 67,10,14,1722 methodology inuenced by, 143 lucas, robert, 28,2979,3013,322 lucas critique, 297302 mach,ernest, 45 mackie, john l., 298 macroeconomics, 28,31531 mainstream economics, problems of, 4435 maki, uskali, 3278,441,492,494 malthus, thomas, 25mandeville, bernard, 31617 mannheim, karl, 20910 marginal revolution, 26 marginal utility, 70,12942 diminishing, 26,27,70,8992,98n32 market, 33940 conceptions misconceptions of, 38690 creativity of, 37980 for lemons, akerlofs model of, 47782 marshall, alfred, 167,168,169,21718,219, 317,321,3301,402 marx, k arl, 2930,21617 maximization-of-returns, 1589,165,176n16 , 177n25 mayer,thomas, 464 mccloskey, deirdre, 189,463,490,507n9 measurement, cost-benet analysis and, 2556 menger ,c a r l,26,317 metaphor, 1314,41920,424,425,48990 methodological individualism. seeexplanatory individualism methodology, 34,14573,34750,43940, 4456.see also hypothesis; realism analytic, 869 assumptions in theory and, 15964 falsicationism in, 18993,1956,199n3 feminism and, 4626 interest in, 23 introduction to, 314 isolation, 4916 logical positivism inuencing, 143 philosophic, 4458 positive economics theory, 14854 testability approximation in, 17982 methodology of scientic research programmes (msrp), 189,1948 microeconomics, 28,3248,356 microfoundations, for macroeconomics, 31531 mill, j ohn stuart, 4,24,26,31,47,167,238, 239,321,492,497,498 mises, ludwig von, 12,32,97n12 ,317 mitchell, wesley c., 407 modal realism, 433 model(s), 7,9,1112,35n8 ,161, 174n11 175n11 ,299300,476505,506 feminism and, 45862 modication, theory, 18 monetary dynamics, 1723 monetary policy, 94 monopolistic competition, 153,167,169,170

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 index 525 morality, 23940.see also normative economics motivation, 1017 muth, john, 301 nagel, ernest, 179,180 nash, john forbes, 3401 natural sciences, 8,10,19,67,69,84,1501, 173n2 ,37980,418 neoclassical economics, 32,381,390,403, 425 neumann, john von, 24 neurath, otto, 14 neuroeconomics, 35673 goal of, 3712 tools in, 3612 newton ,isaac, 15 nominalism, realism v., 30911 nonlinear probability weighting, 3656 normative economics, 205,228 moral framework of, 230t pollution migration example of, 22734 positive v., 1468 relative position and, 260 utilitarianism and, 23940 nussbaum, martha, 281,282,285n2 ,289n32 , 468 objectivity, 667,85,146,171,455,459 observation, 13,18,85,8990 econometrics as, 3069 observer observed relation in, 173n3 174n3 ontological individualism, 234,323 ontology, 441,445,447 deontologists consequentialists v., 2667 realism and, 4324,435 operationalism, 33 ordinal utilities, 236 orthodox economics, criticism of, friedman on, 1645 parametric variations, 280 pareto,vilfreo, 77,84,2418,357,425 paretoefciency improvements, 24,2413, 32930,403 cost-benet analysis and, 2438 paternalism, 2389 peacock, thomas love, 1 pedagogy, 4701 perfect competition, 153,167,169 pesendorfer, wolfgang, 372petty, william, 88,316 philosophic methodology, 4458 philosophy of science, 422 physical sciences. seenatural sciences physiocrats, 23,124 pigou, arthur, 224 pissarides, 315 plato, 416 poincar e, henri, 45 polanyi, michael, 387 polemics, 83 policy, 21.see also intervention commodities demand and, 278 institutionalism and, 4014 monetary, 94 normative economics and, 205 paretoefciency and, 241 welfare economics and, 2235 political economy, 108,117,11928,316,317, 321 denition of, 414 pollution memorandum, summers , 22734, 248n1 ,249n3 popp er, karl r., 1516,143,188,18990, 199n3 ,479 lakatos v., 1956,1978 positive economics, 14654,1713,2347 poverty, capability approach and, 27981 praag, b .m .s .v a n , 263 predicates, 11 prediction, disturbing causes and, 312, 4950,512 preference, 923 comparisons of, 23940 impulse-control and, 2646 positional concerns for, 25864 scales of, 85 premises assumed, 46,54 conclusions and, 17981 prescription, 222,224 price hedonic methods for, 2578 relative, 172 value v., 103 prigogine, ilya, 378,379 prisoners dilemma, 260 produc tion marginal utility applied to, 12930 theory of, 79 produc tivity, 25 psychology, 826,265,3667

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 526 index quantity theory, 88,97n27 98n27 quine, willard van orman, 3489,350,417 racial sorting model, 4824 induction in, 496505 raiffa, howard, 365 ratiocination, 45 rationality, 26,935,2347 neuroeconomics and, 358,3612 rawls, john, 271 real business cycle theory, 28 real income, leisure and, 734 realism, 56,869,4318,43952 nominalism v., 30911 non-realism v., 4401 realism of assumptions, 153,1549,172, 1856,429 reality, generalizations and, 869 reductionism, 31921 relative position, 25864 relative price, 172 renwick, trudi, 469 repeal of corn laws, 223 representative agent, 31718,32931 research, object of, 212 research programs, 18,189,1948 rhetoric, 41519,4278 ricardo, david, 245 richardson, george, 437 robbins, lionel, 32,222,223,321 rober tson, d. h., 217 robinson, joan, 97n12 ,170 rorty, ri chard, 427 samuelson, paul, 33,143,179,180,214,245, 346,484,507n7 sargent, thomas j., 303 satisfaction, 901,92 comparison of, 2234,225n4 savage, leonard j., 157 scale, 85,147 scarcity, 74,75,789,252 scheler, max, 20910 schelling, thomas c., 48296,506 schonfeld, leo, 77 science art v., 57,4201 cultural, 61 economics as, 1,32,926 fundamental hypothesis of, 166 goals of, 56ideology and, 21120 natural, 8,10,19,67,69,84,1501,173n2 , 37980,418 philosophy of, 422 social, 19,1501,171,173n2 unity of, 1922 values and, 208 science of tendencies, 32 scientic revolution, 16 self-correcting systems, 27 self-interest, 2347 sen, amartya, 460 senior, n., 81 sensory experience, 13 sex, gender v., 456 sexism, 457,458 shackle, george l. s., 3801,382,393n13 , 394n16 ship metaphor, 1314 simon, herbert, 143,299,302,309 sims, christopher, 298 skepticism, 1,19 smith, adam, 234,978n27 ,21416,2601, 31617,389 social revolution, 2930,119 social sciences, 19,1501,171,173n2 natural v., 1501,173n2 social utility, 92 socialism, 3912,402 solnick, sara, 262 stationary state, 25 stengers, isabelle, 379 subjectivism, 3803,3867 subjectivity, 32,84 substitutability, 78 summers, lawrence, 464 pollutio nm e m orandum of, 22734,248n1 , 249n3 syntactic objects, 10 synthesis, 54 synthetic truths, 12 technical criticism, 60 testing testability, 16 approximation and, 17982 indirect, 1624 social sciences and, 1501 theories, 1012 assumptions in, 15964 comparison of, 155 composite commodity, 325

p1: pju 9780521883504ind cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:27 index 527 entrepreneurship, 3836 history and, 68 as language, 148 modication of, 18 positive economics, 14854 premises conclusions in, simon on, 17981 realism and, 435 stating of, 15961 theory of exchange, 23,90,233 thunen, j. h. von, 437 time discounting, 364,371 turgot, a. robert jacques, 53,218 uncertainty, 501,176n16 ,247 unconscious optimization, 33940 unity, scientic, 1922 unobservables, 10,44950 utilitarianism, 26,23940 utility expe cted, 365 marginal, 26,27,70,12942 social, 92 utility functions, 92,236,3267 utopia, 712 valuation, 779,834,103 capability approach theories of, 2712, 2834 causality and, 102 contingent-, 2567 subjectivity of, 84ultimate, 95 values, 61,63,208 evaluation and, 2723 varian, hal, 489,490 veblen, t horstein, 30,406,409 vienna circle, 14 vision, 212,213,220 voluntary exchange, 23,233 walras, leon, 26,317 weber, max,19,86 weintraub, e. roy, 194 welfare economics, 2225,2289,2413.see also normative economics ethical individualism and, 2379 morality utilitarianism and, 23940 well-being agency and, 2767 capability approach and, 275 preference satisfaction and, 2389 whewell, william, 4 wicksteed, philip, 77,402 winch, peter, 20 wiseman, jack, 382 wittgenstein, ludwig, 19,419 woodward, james, 10 world bank, 227,228,233 ye l l en ,janet, 460 zellner, arnold a., 301

