india and the contemporary world 104activitysource c under colonial rule, the life of pastoralists changed dramatically. their grazing grounds shrank, their movements were regulated, and the revenue they had to pay increased. their agricultural stock declined and their trades and crafts were adversely affected. how? first, the colonial state wanted to transform all grazing lands into cultivated farms. land revenue was one of the main sources of its finance. by expanding cultivation it could increase its revenuecollection. it could at the same time produce more jute, cotton, wheat and other agricultural produce that were required in england. to colonial officials all uncultivated land appeared tobe unproductive: it produced neither revenue nor agricultural produce. it was seen as waste land that needed to be brought under cultivation. from the mid-nineteenth century, waste landrules were enacted in various parts of the country. by these rules uncultivated lands were taken over and given to select individuals. these individuals were granted various concessions and encouragedto settle these lands. some of them were made headmen of villages in the newly cleared areas. in most areas the lands taken over were actually grazing tracts used regularly by pastoralists. soexpansion of cultivation inevitably meant the decline of pastures and a problem for pastoralists. second, by the mid-nineteenth century, various forest acts were also being enacted in the different provinces. through these acts some forests which produced commercially valuable timber like deodar or sal were declared reserved. no pastoralist was allowed access to these forests. other forests were classified as protected. in these, some customary grazing rights of pastoralists were granted but their movements were severely restricted. the colonial officials believed that grazing destroyed the saplings and young shoots of trees that germinated on the forest floor. the herds trampled over the saplings and munched away the shoots.this