forest society and colonialism 89source d rubber extraction in the putumayo everywhere in the world, conditions of work in plantations were horrific. the extraction of rubber in the putumayo region of the amazon, by the peruvianrubber company (with british andperuvian interests) was dependent onthe forced labour of the local indians,called huitotos. from 1900-1912, theputumayo output of 4000 tons of rubberwas associated with a decrease of some30,000 among the indian population dueto torture, disease and flight. a letterby an employee of a rubber companydescribes how the rubber was collected.the manager summoned hundreds ofindians to the station: he grasped his carbine and machete and began the slaughter of thesedefenceless indians, leaving the groundcovered with 150 corpses, among them,men, women and children. bathed inblood and appealing for mercy, thesurvivors were heaped with the deadand burned to death, while the managershouted, i want to exterminate all theindians who do not obey my ordersabout the rubber that i require them tobring in. michael taussig, culture of terror-space of death, in nicholas dirks, ed.colonialism and culture, 1992.with the growing demand for rubber in the mid-nineteenth century, the mundurucu peoples of the brazilian amazon who lived in villages on high ground and cultivated manioc, began to collect latex from wild rubber trees for supplying to traders. gradually, they descendedto live in trading posts and became completely dependent on traders. in india, the trade in forest products was not new. from the medieval period onwards, we have records of adivasi communities trading elephants and other goods like hides, horns, silk cocoons, ivory,bamboo, spices, fibres, grasses, gums and resins through nomadic communities like the banjaras. with the coming of the british, however, trade was completely regulated by the government. the british government gave many large european trading firms the sole right to trade in the forestproducts of particular areas.