socialism in europe and the russian revolution 41activity source bto cooperation with non-russian nationalities and muslim jadidists. cooperation did not work where russian colonists themselves turned bolshevik. in khiva, in central asia, bolshevik colonists brutally massacred local nationalists in the name of defending socialism. in this situation, many were confused about what the bolshevikgovernment represented. partly to remedy this, most non-russian nationalities were given political autonomy in the soviet union (ussr) the state the bolsheviks created from the russian empire in december 1922. but since this was combined with unpopular policies that the bolsheviks forced the local government to follow like the harsh discouragementof nomadism attempts to win over different nationalities were only partly successful. central asia of the october revolution: two views m.n.roy was an indian revolutionary, a founder of the mexican communist party and prominent comintern leader in india, china and europe. he was in centralasia at the time of the civil war in the 1920s. he wrote: the chieftain was a benevolent old man; his attendant a youth who spoke russian he had heard of the revolution, which had overthrown the tsar anddriven away the generals who conquered the homeland of the kirgiz. so, therevolution meant that the kirgiz were masters of their home again. long live therevolution shouted the kirgiz youth who seemed to be a born bolshevik. thewhole tribe joined. m.n.roy, memoirs (1964). the kirghiz welcomed the first revolution (ie february revolution) with joy and the second revolution with consternation and terror [this] first revolution freed themfrom the oppression of the tsarist regime and strengthened their hope that autonomy would be realised. the second revolution (october revolution) wasaccompanied by violence, pillage, taxes and the establishment of dictatorial power once a small group of tsarist bureaucrats oppressed the kirghiz. now the samegroup of people perpetuate the