offensive outputs, along with prism con- troversial and value-guided conversations [ 43], which address eth- ically sensitive topics. for helpfulness , we leveraged the hh-rlhf helpful dataset [ 7], designed to evaluate a models ability to assist users, and the stanford human preferences dataset [ 23], which cap- tures real-world human-to-human reddit interactions. finally, for general conversational tasks, we included lmsys [ 75], a diverse col- lection of human-model conversations, as well as prism unguided conversations [43], which consist of open-ended dialogues. upon these datasets, we implemented three approaches for se- lecting and evaluating principles and, ultimately, forming constitu- tions (4.3): principle-objective alignment (4.3.1), framing analysis (4.3.2), and psychometrics (4.3.3). the psychometrics approach can be used in the absence of human preference data. fine-tuning constitutional models. although not part of the framework, aligning a model with a constitution is impossible with- out some training or prompting procedure. there are several meth- ods for achieving cai alignment depending on the desired level of control and complexity. one option is supervised fine-tuning, which involves systematically critiquing and revising the models outputs, followed by a process called reinforcement learning from ai feed- back (rlaif), as outlined in [ 8], or its simplified version without revisions proposed in [ 44]. alternatively, simpler approaches in- volve prompt-engineering [ 26,54], where predefined prompts were used to guide the models responses without (re-)training. part 2: evaluating how models follow constitutions. detailed in 5, the second part of c3ai evaluates constitutional models through: (1) principle-specific evaluation (5.1), which assesses adherence to individual principles by comparing responses chosen by fine-tuned models to those chosen by a baseline model; and (2)use-specific evaluation (5.2), which tests performance in real-world tasks such as safety and reasoning using established benchmarks. 4 part 1: crafting constitutions in this section, we describe our implementation of