ethics, freedoms, and rights factor, which emphasize benefiting humanity and ethical sensitivity. these results from fine-tuned models contrast with the human alignment results in table 1, where f6 was more likely to agree with human preferences than f5. our fine-tuned models might perform best with clear, action-based rules, likely because they lack human-like reasoning and cannot adjust for context or intent [ 73]. unlike humans, who interpret and adapt principles flexibly, models follow rules rigidly, sometimes leading to unintended consequences. this may be why negatively framed, specific principles (e.g., avoid harmful content) are easier for models, while positively framed, abstract principles (e.g., benefit humanity) are harder. similar issues arise with the three laws of robotics, where strict rule- following can still cause harm [24, 58]. 5.2 use-specific evaluation in addition to evaluating whether a model adheres to a set of prin- ciples, it is essential to ensure that it demonstrates the desired behavior in a given use case (e.g., avoiding discriminatory behavior based on race or ethnicity). we evaluated our models safety per- formance across various tasks from the safety evaluation section of trustllm [ 67], including jailbreaking, exaggerated safety, and misuse benchmarks. to determine whether training on different principles impacted reasoning or world knowledge, we then tested the models general reasoning capabilities using mmlu [ 35] and mathematical reasoning capabilities using gsm8k [16]. we found that anthropic and anthropic-ega outperformed the baseline model across all of the tested safety-related categories (table 3). anthropic-ega outperformed anthropic on jailbreak and exaggerated safety, but performed slightly worse on misuse. im- portantly, this improved safety alignment did not compromise the models general and math reasoning capabilities, as both achieved higher scores than the baseline model on mmlu and gsm8k.6 conclusion we introduced the c3ai framework for crafting and evaluating ai constitutions. using five