safety humility restr aint ai impersonality freedom, equality , brotherhood vital freedomsuniversal equality rights respectful autonom y freedom respecthuman rights respect integr ity first wise ethical harmony helpful honesty consider ate comm unication ethical harmon y friendly response ethical diplomacy respectful thoughtfulness inclusiv e comm unicationharmonious respect triple h ethical sensitivity humanity wellbeing alignment human centr ic flexibility positive negativeprinciple correlationsharm minimization, reliability, and balanceprinciple factors and their sources most aligned principles for three conversational objectives f1 f2 f3 f4 f5 f6 f1 f2f3 f4f5f6 figure 2: ega graph where nodes represent 185 principles, and edges are weighted by the correlation between principle pairs. thicker edges indicate stronger absolute values; continuous edges represent positive correlations, while dashed edges indicate negative correlations. these correlations are derived from 1,800 conversations spanning three conversational objectives, which aim at ensuring that conversations are harmless, helpful, and effective in general-purpose contexts. the graph depicts the median graph from 500 bootstrapped ega runs, with nodes removed during uva omitted. the six principle factors are reported along with their dataset sources. nodes of the same color belong to the same factor, while nodes with three distinct shapes correspond to the principles with the highest principle-objective alignment - those best suited for each of the three conversational objectives. node size reflects the overall strength of the nodes connections within the graph. 0 otherwise. if no dataset of human preferences is available, the matrix can still be constructed by assigning a value of 1 if a princi- ple selects the first response and 0 otherwise. since the goal is to analyze relationships between principles, the specific assignment of 1s and 0s does not affect the overall analysis. principles that consistently select the same response - whether the first or second - are more likely to be related, as their