p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 192 d.wade hands 2. related to, but actually separate from the duhemian problem, is the problem that the qualitative comparative statics technique used in eco- nomics makes severe testing very difcult and cheap corroborationalsuccess too easy . in economics it is very often the case that the strongestavailable prediction is a qualitative co mparative statics result which only species that the variable in question increases, decreases, orremains the same. since having the correct sign is much easier than having both the correct sign and magnitude, an emphasis on suchqualitative prediction generates theories which are low in empiricalcontent, have few potential falsiers, and are difcult if not impos- sible to test severely. the result is often economic theories which areconrmed by the evidence but provide very little information. 10 3. poppers admitted failure ( 1983 :xxxv) to develop an adequate theory of verisimilitude11presents a fundamental difculty for a falsication- ist methodology in economics. poppers theory of verisimilitude devel-oped as an attempt to reconcile his falsicationist methodology withscientic realism. for a realist science aims at true theories; accordingtofalsicationism, scientic theories should be chosen if they have been corroborated by passing severe tests. if the falsicationist method is to full the realist aims of science it should be demonstrated that morecorroborated theories are closer to the truth. such a demonstration was precisely the goal of poppers theory of verisimilitude. actually a satisfactory theory of verisimilitude would serve popperian philosophyin at least two different ways. one way, as already mentioned, wouldbe to provide an epistemic justication for playing the game of sciencebyfalsicationist rules. such a justication is very important for pop- perian philosophy since without a theory of verisimilitude it can beargued that there are philosophically no good reasons (popper