p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 265 people confront such choices in practice, however, most pick the 100 option in a, whereas most choose the 105 option in b. substantial experimental evidence suggests that individuals discount future costs and benets not exponentially, as assumed by the rational choicemodel, but hyperbolically. 26the psychological impact of a cost or benet falls much more sharply with delay under hyperbolic discounting than underexponential discounting. one consequence is that preference reversals of the kind just discussed are all but inevitable under hyperbolic discounting. theclassic reversal involves choosing the larger, later reward when both alter-natives occur with substantial delay, then switching to the smaller, earlierreward when its delay falls below some threshold. thus, from the pair of alternatives labeled b above, in which both rewards come only after a rela-tively long delay, most subjects chose the larger, later reward, whereas fromthe pair labeled a, most chose the earlier, smaller reward. the tendency to discount future costs and benets hyperbolically gives rise to a variety of familiar impulse-control problems and, in turn, to a vari- ety of strategies for solving them. anticipating their temptation to overeat,people often try to limit the quantities of sweets, salted nuts, and other del-icacies they keep on hand. anticipating their temptation to spend cash intheir checking accounts, people enroll in payroll deduction savings plans.foreseeing the difculty of putting down a good mystery novel in mid- stream, many people know better than to start one on the evening before animportant meeting. reformed smokers seek the company of nonsmokerswhen they rst try to kick the habit and are more likely than others to favorlaws that limit smoking in public places. the recovering alcoholic avoidscocktail lounges. effective as these bootstrap self-control