p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 253 tradeoffs. for example, they do not vacuum their houses several times a day, nor do they get their brakes checked every morning. the reason, presum- ably, is not that clean air and auto safety do not matter, but that they havemore pressing uses of their time. like the rest of us, they are forced to makethe best accommodations they can between competing values. general reservations about consequentialist ethics manycritics of cost-benet analysis fault it for being rooted in utilitarianism or some closely related form of consequentialist ethical theory.3consequen- tialist theories hold that the right course of action is the one that leads tothe best consequences, where consequences under the utilitarian variantmeans highest total utility. critics often attack consequentialism by citingexamples in which its purported conclusions clash with the readers ethical intuitions. one popular example invokes the utility monster, someonewho transforms resources into utility far more efciently than anyone else.critics argue that since utilitarianism says the best outcome is to give all resources to the utility monster, and since we know this to be an absurd con- clusion, we must reject the ethical theory upon which cost-benet analysisrests. consequentialist moral philosophers have attempted to show that their theories, properly construed, do not imply the conclusions suggested bysuch examples. 4butevenifthese disputes are never fully resolved, we may note that the theories favored by the rival camps reach remarkably similardecisions regarding a broad range of ethical questions. as a practical matter,then, the mere fact that cost-benet analysis is closely identied with con-sequentialist ethical theories would not seem to imply that its prescriptionsare systematically misleading. discounting the future astraditionally implemented, cost-bene tanalysis attempts to put all rel- evant costs and benets on a