p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 359 of principal-agent relations, gift exchange and efciency wages, social net- worksand favour exchange in rms, substitution of authority for pricing, corporate culture and so forth. but the gross simplication is useful, for the purpose of building up an industry supply curve. later, contract theory opened up the black-box of the rm and mod- elled the details of the nexus of contracts between shareholders, workersand managers. the new theory of the rm replaces the (perennially use- ful) ction ofaprot-maximising rm which has a single goal, with a more detailed account of how components of the rm individuals, hierarchies, and networks interact and communicate to determine rm behaviour. neuroeconomics proposes to do the same by treating an individual eco- nomic agent like a rm. the last sentence in the previous paragraph can beexactly rewritten to replace rms and the components of rms with individ- uals and neural components of individuals. rewriting that sentence givesthis one: the neuroeconomic theory of the individual replaces the (perenni- ally useful) ction of a utility-maximising individual which has a single goal, with a more detailed account of how components of the individual brain regions, cognitive control, and neural circuits interact and communicate to determine individual behaviour. the rapid emergence of various dual-self or dual-process approaches tes- ties to how well economic theory can be adapted to study the brain asan organisation of interacting comp onents. fudenberg and levine (forth- coming) emphasise the struggle between a long-run player and a short-run player, adapted from game-theoretic models (see also shefrin and thalersprescient, 1988, planner-doer model). 1benhabib and bisin (2005) empha- sise the constraint that controlled executive processes put on automaticprocesses. bernheim and rangel (forthcoming) emphasise hot impulsivestates (akin to automatic process, but perhaps