p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 365 inscottish law there are three verdicts guilty, not guilty and unproven . anunproven verdict results when there is too little evidence to determine guilt or innocence (often in sexual assault cases, since scottish law requiresacorroborating witness besides a testifying victim). unproven verdicts are usually the jurys way of expressing an aversion to rendering either verdict,often shaming a victim they believe is guilty but cannot legally nd guiltybecause of evidentiary rules which create reasonable doubt. since decision theorists forming axioms are not generally thinking about brain activity adhering to those axioms, it is difcult to nd descriptionswhich are suggestive of neural activity. but raiffa (1961) wrote: butifcertain uncertainties in the problem were in cloudy or fuzzy [ambiguous] form, then very often there was a shifting of gears and no effort at all was made tothink deliberately and reectively about the problem. systematic decomposition of the problem was shunned and an over-all seat of the pants judgment was madewhich graphically reected the temperament of the decision maker. unfortunately, the seat of the pants is not a brain area, but raiffa does describe a rapid emotional response in the face of ambiguity. hsu etal. (2005) investigated ambiguity and risk using fmri; see also huettel etal. (2006). they found additional activation in valuing bets on ambiguousgambles relative to risky ones (such as bets on low-knowledge events, likethe temperature in tajikistan compared to high-knowledge new y ork). theyfound additional activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal area, orbito-frontalcortex(above the eye sockets, ofc) and the amygdala (a vigilance area, which is rapidly activated in 520 msecs by fearful images, even before they are consciously processed). subjects with higher right ofc activity inresponse to ambiguity also had higher ambiguity-aversion parameters as estimated by