p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 388 james m. buchanan and viktor j. vanberg teleologically in terms of the relative achievement of some predened goal or objective. in simons problems, the objective is, simply, economic product, which is wheat in his one-good economy. in polanyis case, the objective isexplicitly stated to be minimization of volume. in barrys essay, the argument is more sophisticated, but any conceptualization of an omniscient, design-ing mind must imply some well-dened objective that exists independentlyfrom the separate participants own creative choices. ifthe efcacy of market organization, is, as insinuated in the above exam- ples, evaluated teleologically, in terms of its capacity to approach an inde-pendently (that is, independent of the choice of process itself) determinablestate, then there remains only an ambiguous discourse over comparativeperformance as between such an organization and centralized economicplanning. even if simons, polanyi, and barry, along with others, may havesucceeded in demonstrating that decentralized arrangements are superior inachieving some objectively identiable goal, their conceptualization of themarket process forces them into a line of comparative defense that a radicalsubjectivist understanding of the market would have rendered unnecessaryfrom the outset. if the market is genuinely perceived as an open-ended,nondetermined evolutionary process in which the essential driving force ishuman choice, any insinuation, however subtle, of a telos toward which the process can be predicted to move must be inherently misleading. thereis, in our view, no systematically sustainable middle ground between a tele-ological and a nonteleological perspective. and all conceptualizations ofthe market process that suppose, whether explicitly or implicitly, a some-thing toward which the process is moving are, by this very fact, teleological , whether the something is specied as an equilibrium or otherwise. thisapplies to the notion of a mechanical equilibrium as implied in the standardtextbook models of