p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 463 feminist scholarship suggests that such narrow views of knowledge and rationality are holdovers from a crisis about masculinity during the early years of the development of modern science, particularly manifested in the ascendancy of cartesian philosophy (bordo, 1987 ;easlea, 1980 ). far from protecting economics against biases, such a concentration on toughness and detachment hog-ties our methods of analysis. emphasis on being hard,logical, scientic, and precise has served a valuable purpose, it is true, inguarding against analysis that is weak, illogical, unscientic, and vague. butif these are the only virtues we value in our practice, we are easy prey to other vices. emphasis on masculine hardness without exibility can, as discussed above, turn into rigidity. emphasis on logic, without sufcient attentiontograsping the big picture, can lead to empty, out-of-touch exercises in pointless deduction. scientic progress without attention to human valuescan serve inhuman ends. arguments that have given up all richness for thesake of precision end up being very thin. including both masculine- andfeminine-identied positive qualities, on the other hand, makes possible apractice that is exible, attentive to context, humanistic, and rich as well asstrong, logical, scientic, and precise. feminist economists are not the only economists to voice dissatisfaction with the narrow strictures put on knowledge seeking in economics, that as a consequence leave economists inade quately educated and inadequately practiced in skills of richer and more substantive analysis. while feministtheorists offer a unique explanation for the psychological and social tenacityof the cartesian view (and link it to failures in areas of model, topics, andpedagogy as well), feminist economists hardly need to start from scratch inenvisioning a more adequate methodological toolbox. donald mccloskey,for example, has written extensively on the possibilities for improvement ofrhetorical