p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 24 introd uction leaves individuals free to pursue their own objectives. smith could not, however, prove rigorously that voluntary exchanges of well-informed self-interested agents lead to efcient economic outcomes. shortly after world war ii, mathematicians and economists such as von neumann, arrow, debreu, and mckenzie proved something like what smith conjectured. they demonstrated that if agents are rational, self-interested, and well informed, and if they interact only through voluntary exchange inaperfectly competitive market, then a general equilibrium exists, which is paretoefcient. in addition, they proved that every pareto efcient outcome is a general equilibrium of voluntary exchanges among rational and self-interested agents, given the proper initial distribution of resources amongthe agents. 29ageneral equilibrium is a situation in which there is no excess demand on any market. an economic outcome ois pareto efcient if and only if one cannot depart from owithout frustrating someones prefer- ences. all possibilities for uncontroversial improvement have been seized.inan inefcient economic state of affairs, in contrast, there are ways of better satisfying some peoples preferences without lessening the preference satis-faction of others. the efciency in question here is efciency in satisfyingpreferences. although inefciency in satisfying preferences is arguably a bad thing, lots of things are worse. whether a state of affairs is pareto efcient is gener-ally independent of the distribution of goods, and accordingly some paretoefcient states of affairs may be intolerable. for example, almost everyonefavors a great many nonoptimal economic circumstances over a pareto ef-cient state of affairs in which one man had everything he wanted and mostothers were miserable. one should be skeptical about the signicance ofproofs of the existence and efciency of general equilibria both because ofthe weakness of the notion of pareto efciency and because of the extremelyrestrictive