p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 189 introduction popperian philosophy of science has been extremely inuential in economic methodology. popperian falsicationism , rst introduced into economics byhutchison ( 1938 ), remains one of the dominant approaches to economic methodology. in addition to this direc tinuence, popperian philosophy has also affected economic methodology through the work of imre lakatos. afairly extensive literature has developed around the question of the applica-bility of lakatoss methodology of scientic research programmes (msrp)toeconomics. 2 the purpose of this chapter is to cri tically reappraise the methodological advice given by popperian philosophy. in this reappraisal both popperianfalsicationism and lakatoss msrp will be examined. neo-institutionalisteconomics will not be explicitly discussed; instead the focus will be thegeneral standards for economic theory choice which inuence every eco-nomic theory (including neo-institutionalism). throughout the discussionthe philsophical positions will be appraised only with respect to economic methodology :economic in that only economics and not other elds of enquiry will be discussed, and method ology in that only questions of the- ory choice and theory appraisal (not more general philosophical considera-tions) will be examined. in particular, questions such as whether economicmethodology should be pursued at all (recently raised by mccloskey ( 1985 )) will not be examined here. falsicationism nodoubt karl popper is best known for his falsicationist approach to the philosophy of science: a theory rst presented in logikderforschung in 1934 (english translation, popper 1959 ). falsicationism represents pop- pers view of the growth of scientic knowledge as well as his solution to(or dissolution of) the problem of induction. it is for falsicationism thatpopper claims responsibility for the death of logical positivism (popper 1976b :88). popperian falsicationism is actually composed of two separate theses: one on demarcation (demarcating science