p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 373 auseful focus for debate is therefore how gracefully (and predictively) conventional economics language can explain the effects on observed choices (and inferred unobservable states) of brain lesions, pupil dilation, tms stim-ulation, and oxytocin. any conventional accounts which absorb these effectssemantically, and then make predictions about them, will be welcomed asinteresting neuroeconomics. the history of economic thought part of the mindless case is more clearly settled. gul and pesendorfer write that populating economic tmmodels with esh-and-blood human beings was never the objective of economiststm. butcolander (2005) reminds us how interested classical economists were in measuring concepts like utility directly, before pareto and the neoclassicalsgave up. edgeworth dreamed of a hedonimeter that could measure utility directly; ramsey fantasised about a psychogalvanometer; and irving fisher wroteextensively, and with a time lag due to frustration, about how utility could be measured directly. edgeworth wrote: ...imagine an ideally perfect instrument, a psychophysical machine, continually registering the height of pleasure experienced by an individual ...from mo ment to moment the hedonimeter varies; the delicate index now ickering with the utterof the passions, now steadied by intellectual activity, low sunk whole hours in theneighbourhood of zero, or momentarily springing up towards innity ... the interest of these early economists in measuring utility directly was to establish a biological cardinal utility scale, which is not a goal of microeco-nomics. in any case, given their ambitions, it is hard to believe at least someof these important gures would not be interested in using the modern toolsthat we do have. if edgeworth were alive today, would he just be makingboxes, or also recording the brain? notes 1.benabou and pyciak (2002) show how the gul and pesendorfer (2001) model of preferences under temptation is mathematically