p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 316 kevin d .h oover is just a dim memory from an undergraduate textbook and whose rst lecture in their graduate macroeconomics courses began with a hamiltoniandescribing the dynamic optimization problem of what appears to be anindividual agent. gradually, undergraduate textbooks are following suit,and even the econometric forecasting models of the united states federalreserve system have undergone surgery to remove the is lm model that once was the beating heart of their more than two hundred equation system.that the profession has sworn allegiance to the ideal of microfoundationsis beyond doubt. the question before us is whether they are right to do so. some history the earliest empirical economics is macroeconomics. the word eco-nomics derives from a greek word meaning the management of the house-hold. the earliest name for our subject, political economy, consciouslydrew the analogy between the management of the household and the man-agement of the state. but the politics of the seventeenth and eighteenth cen-turies was somewhat different from the politics of the nineteenth, twentieth,and twenty-rst centuries. the transition to individualism was incomplete,and it was not uncommon for the political theorists of the day to thinkmore of the social hierarchy as king, aristocracy, merchants, farmers, peas-ants, and so forth with little regard to the role of the individual. the earlystatistical researches of william petty, gregory king, and charles davenantwereaimed not at understanding the economic behavior of particular people but at determining the capacities of england and ireland to support the mil-itary ambitions of the english king. the models of franc ois quesnay and the physiocrats, which bear many structu raland methodological resemblances tomodern macroeconomic models, went a step further. again, appealing to the division of french society into broad classes (nobility, farmers, artisans),they gave normative