p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 128 karl marx wealth and the production of wealth are proclaimed to be the goal of the modern state, which is regarded merely as a means for producing wealth. the disposition of material has evidently to be made in such a way that [section] one comprises general abstra ct denitions, which therefore apper- tain in some measure to all social formations, but in the sense set forth ear-lier. two, the categories which constitute the internal structure of bourgeoissociety and on which the principal classes are based. capital, wage-labour,landed property and their relations to one another. t own and country. thethree large social classes; exchange between them. circulation. the (private)credit system. three, the state as the epitome of bourgeois society. analysis ofits relations to itself. the unproductive classes. taxes. national debt. publiccredit. population. colonies. emigration. four, international conditions ofproduction. international division of labour. international exchange. exportand import. rate of exchange. five, world market and crises. notes 1.marx,still using hegels terminology and his approach to the unity of the oppo- sites, counterposes the term verwirklichung (realisation) to entwirklichung(loss of realisation). 2.inthis manuscript marx frequently uses two similar german terms, ent ausserung and entfremdung, to express the notion of alienation. in the present edition the former is generally translated as alienation, the latter asestrangement, because in the later economic works ( theories of surplus-value ) marxhimself used the word alienation as the english equivalent of the term ent ausserung. 3.the term species-being (gattungswesen) is derived from ludwig feuerbachs philosophy where it is applied to man and mankind as a whole. 4.apparently marx refers to proudhons book quest-ce que la propri ete?, paris, 1841. 5.this passage shows that marx here uses the category of wages in a broad sense,as an