p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 what has realism got to do with it? 445 the basis of potentially more fruitful alternatives. in a word, the primary failing of modern economists is ontolog ical neglect. it is in this specic sense especially, in my view, that most economists are not being realistenough. arealist alternative of course, the sorts of responses by modellers just noted mainly serve the purpose of allowing the modelling project in economics to continue unabated. in some quarters numerous pragmatic or coherentist criteriaof model selection (elegance, parsimony, complexity, consistency with theequilibrium framework) are even invoked as if to obviate any need for theempirical assessment of models. suchresponses are certainly questionable. my alternative strategy, as i say, has been to investigate in a sustained and explicit way the nature of socialreality and to tailor methods of social inv estigation accordingly. this has cer- tainly led me to doubt whether methods of formalistic analysis have muchrelevance to the social domain. and in the process i have come to defend a conception of the social realm as emergent from, but irreducible to, human interaction. i have argued for a theory o fsocial ontology that includes forms of social structure, including social relationships, rules, positions, processesand totalities, etc., that collectively constitute a relatively autonomous realm,being dependent upon and resulting from human interaction, but withproperties that are irreducible to human interaction, though acting backupon it. in economics and reality iargue, in effect, that this social ontology covers both a vertical realism , entailing a commitment to underlying social structures, powers and entities, etc., and also a horizontal realism coveringthe transfactual operation of causal mechanisms in open and (any conceiv-able) closed systems alike, that is, whatever the outcomes. in this i ndthat causally efcacious (and