p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 457 economic practice. one response might be to endorse this association so that wecan go on doing as we have always done. if this is masculine economics, so be it. the only alternative to masculine economics, our usual way ofthinking about gender tells us, would be emasculated, impotent economics. another response might be to turn the tables and seek to replace hard, objective, active, androcentric economics with soft, subjective, passive gyno-centric economics. one might focus on cooperation, for example, instead of competition and eschew all quantitative methods in favor of qualitativeones. while this might be appealing to those who consider modern eco-nomics to be responsible for all the ills in the world, such a response merely trades one set of biases for another. athird response, particularly associated with the intellectual currents of postmodernism, might be to deconstruct the dualisms on which moderndenitions of economics depend. in deconstructionist theory, all humanprojects are simply texts or discourses to which techniques of literacy criti-cism can be applied. in this view, neither the distinction science nonsciencenor masculine feminine reects any nonlinguistic underlying reality. thisapproach, however, yields little guidance about how to judge the quality ofscientic practice. 3 afourth approach is adopted in this article. it does not require endorsing one side or the other of the masculine feminine dualism, nor forgoing eval-uation. the key to this approach lies in an unlinking of our judgments aboutvalue that is, about what is meritorious or less meritorious in economicpractice from our perceptions of gender. the notion that masculine economics is good economics depends on ageneral cultural association of masculinity with superiority and feminin- ity with inferiority, or, in other words, a mental linking of value (supe-rior inferior) and gender (masculine