p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 30 introd uction property and to prevent them from hiring workers and making prots. but, or so marx argues, in expanding the size of their enterprises, capitalists unwittingly enlarge and strengthen the working class and lay the foundationsfor socialist revolution. given the collapse of the soviet union and the transformation of its econ- omy and of the economies of eastern europe, interest in marxian economicshas collapsed as well. from one per spective, this is peculiar, because the russian and eastern european economies had only a tenuous connection with marxs economics. but economic theories do not hover above the political waves. they are instead tossed about and, in the case of marxseconomics, possibly drowned. institutionalist (or evolutionar y) economists make up another major contemporary alternative to mainstream economics. the neoclassical attempt to capture all relevant aspects of the economy in one elegant the-ory leaves out a great deal. in the view of the institutionalists (and theirnineteenth-century predecessors, the german historical school), it leavesout too much and in abstracting from institutional development, it missescentral aspects. the essays by thorstein veblen (chapter 6)and geoffrey m. hodg son (chapter 21)exemplify the institutionalist critique of main- stream economics and provide some sense of the institutionalist alternative.although institutionalists do not ignore individual decision making, theyemphasize the evolving constraints on agents occupying specic economicroles. the institutionalists do not constitute a tightly organized sect. the writings of the central historical gures (thorstein veblen, wesley mitchell, and john r. commons) are very different from one another. the empha-sis is on historically situated and evolutionary theorizing. economists aredivided on how successful institutional theorizing has been and is likelyto be. athird contemporary alternative to mainstream economics, about which there is currently heated disagreement, is behavioral economics, includingneuroeconomics.