p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 318 kevin d .h oover succeeded in nding adequate grounding in individual analysis. and it is evident in empirical discussions of business cycles, which were regarded as economy-wide phenomena. so things stood in the mid-1930s, when john maynard keynes was writing thegeneral theory. keynes did not invent macroeconomics, nor did he use the term. (as far as i can discover, ragnar frisch was the rst to use theterm,in1931, though it became current only after the second world war.) 3 keynes, nevertheless, claried the distinction between what we now call macroeconomics and microeconomics and made it possible for us to askthe question, how are the two related? as is evident in his discussion of theconsumption function (the marginal propensity to consume follows from afundamental psychological law), investment (entrepreneurs optimize with respect to opportunity costs), and the demand for money (speculators anticipate capital gains or losses), keynes follows marshall in looking to theindividual decision problem for illumination. these appeals to individualbehavior remain in the service of aggregate explanations. despite the fact largely ignored in potted histories that he stresses the heterogeneity ofindividual responses as a central feature of aggregate behavior, keynes neverexplores the relationship between the individual and the aggregate in any really systematic way. microeconomics so dominated economic thinking in 1936 that the cry for microfoundations for the newly resurgent macroeconomics was almostimmediate. jacob viner and wassily leontief wrote microeconomic criti-cisms of the general theory . 4lawrence klein, in his keynesian revolution , thought it necessary to discuss the microeconomic underpinnings of theprincipal keynesian aggregate functions. 5the history of the rst twenty-ve years of postwar macroeconomics is largely the hanging of micro-economic esh on the skeleton of interpretation of keyness general theory formalized in hickss aggregate general-equilibrium,