p1: jzp 9780521883504c02 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:10 70 max w eber signicance of institutions. the interesting asp ect of the psychic attitude of a person in a social situation is specically particularized in each case, accord-ing to the special cultural signicance of the situation in question. it is aquestion of an extremely heterogeneous and highly concrete structure ofpsychic motives and inuences. social-psychological research involves thestudy of various very disparate individual types of cultural elements with reference to their interpretability by our empathic understanding. through social-psychological research, with the knowledge of individual institutionsas a point of departure, we will learn increasingly how to understand insti-tutions in a psychological way. we will not however deduce the institutionsfrom psychological laws or explain them by elementary psychological phe-nomena. thus, the far-ung polemic, which centered on the question of the psy- chological justication of abstract theor etical propositions, on the scope of the acquisitive impulse and the economic principle, etc., turns out tohave been fruitless. inthe establishment of the propositions of abstract theory, it is only appar- ently a matter of deductions from fundamental psychological motives.actually, the former are a special case of a kind of concept-construction which is peculiar and to a certain extent, indispensable, to the cultural sci-ences. it it worthwhile at this point to describe it in further detail since wecan thereby approach more closely the fundamental question of the sig-nicance of theory in the social sciences. therewith we leave undiscussed,once and for all, whether theparticular analytical concepts which we cite or towhich we allude as illustrations, correspond to the purposes they are to serve, i.e., whether in fact they are well-adapted. the question as to how far,for example, contemporary abstract theory should be further elaborated,is ultimately also a question of the strategy of science,