p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 16 introd uction were,both conceived of theory assessment in terms of the confrontation of single theories with data. most contemporary philosophers of science reject this way of approaching the problems. instead of thinking about the problems of theory assessment ,they are concerned with the problems of theory comparison andchoice .testing is a many-sided confrontation among alternative theories and data. furthermore, there are many choices to bemade among theories, not just one. a scientist may for example reason-ably believe that theory tis better conrmed than theory t prime,but that t prime offers more interesting research possibilities. although most contemporaryphilosophers of science agree that there are many different problems of the-ory assessment and that one must address them in terms of choices among alternatives, disagreements remain about what conclusions to draw. one view, which many attribute to thomas kuhn, is to question whether theory choices are rationally defensible. in his classic structure of scientic revolutions ,kuhn offers a view of science and of philosophy of science that differed sharply from the logical empiricist orthodoxy at the time he waswriting. with the help of vivid examples from the history of science, kuhn emphasizes how extensive are the constraints on ordinary scientic research.todetermine the magnitude of a particular constant or to solve a detailed theoretical problem takes resources and energy, which scientists will notbe willing to expend unless they are convinced that the general theoreticalframework (paradigm) within which they are working is more or lesscorrect. without such commitments, detailed esoteric research efforts would not be undertaken. although the workaday, perhaps even dogmatic normalscience that results does not aim at discovering novelties, it nevertheless,kuhn argues, uncovers anomalies problems that resist solution within the particular normal scientic tradition. such anomalies can undercut