p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 237 with the addition of self-interest, the fundamental theory now has signif- icant content. add diminishing marginal utility (or diminishing marginalratesofsubstitution), the assumption that people are well informed, and subsidiary assumptions concerning, for example, the divisibility of com-modities, and economists can use their fundamental theory to explain mar-ketphenomena such as the law of demand. 4. moral foundations: ethical individualism and welfare toput forward a theory of normative economics requires that economists say something about ethics. here again, economists are committed to a formof individualism. ethical individualism is the view that social entities are of nointrinsic moral importance. there is moral reason to protect a culture, a religion, a state, a tribe, or a corporation if and only if doing so is required bymoral concern for individual human beings. ethical individualism leaves open the possibility that nonhuman animals, or perhaps even plants, haveintrinsic moral worth. it denies specically that there is anything morallysignicant about the interests of social entities, unless their protection canbe linked to concerns about individuals. these days, ethical individualism is increasingly controversial, as many of those who defend multiculturalism in the united states and who opposeglobalization across the world argue for the importance of protecting dis- tinctive local cultures. but a recognition of the enormous value of localcultures and of the enormous harm that results from their disruption isnot inconsistent with ethical individualism. ethical individualists shouldvalue local cultures very highly when they benet their members and do notharm outsiders, and the loss of cultural variation in the long run may be as harmful to those who belong to hegemonic cultures as to those who belongtoendangered cultures. treating the moral value of cultures, languages, or other social practices