his newtheoretical insights ( 1990 ,p.185). 27.kirzner indirectly refers to this issue without, however, discussing it: in partic- ular the futurity that entrepreneurship must confront introduces the possibilitythat the entrepreneur may, by his own creative actions, in fact construct the future as hewishes it to be. in the single-period case alertness can at best dis- coverhitherto overlooked current facts. in the multiperiod case entrepreneurial alertness must include the entrepreneurs perception of the way in which cre-ative and imaginative action may vital ly shape the kind of transactions that will be entered into in future market periods ( 1985 ,pp.63ff.). 28.and, by implication, one could argue that the equilibrium toward which intertemporal coordination as it is promoted by entrepreneurial discovery oferror tends to gravitate can only be some nal state of universal enlightenment,at the end of all times. support for such, a dmittedly exaggerated, interpretation may be seen in statements such as this: my view, therefore, sees initial marketignorance indeed as an inescapable feature of the human condition in a worldof change, but also as subject to continual erosion. ...(entrepreneurs) discover where existing decisions were in fact mistaken. here lies the source for any equilibrating tendencies that markets display (kirzner, 1985 ,p.13). 29.the discussion here, and elsewhere in this article, is related, at least indirectly,toacriticism of michael polanyi advanced by one of us in two related articles (buchanan, 1977 ,1985 ). polanyi conceptualized the scientic process as explo- ration or discovery, and he argued persuasively that decentralized organization of the scientic enterprise would insure more rapid advance in solving thejigsaw puzzle. from this conceptualization of the scientic process, polanyisupported, by analogy, the spontaneous or dering properties of decentralized market processes. buchanans criticism suggested that, even if the discovery-exploration metaphor remains applicable to the enterprise of the physical sciences, such