p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 358 colin f. camerer principles for judging theories which use assumptions atomake a formal prediction p: 1. assumptions ashould be judged by the accuracy of the predictions p they mathematically imply. 2. since false assumptions can yield accurate predictions, even if assump- tions appear false their empirical weakness should be tolerated if theylead to accurate predictions p. iwholeheartedly endorse the rst principle (1), but not the corollary principle (2). here is why: rst, if assumptions aare false but lead to an accurate prediction, they presumably do so because of a hidden repair condition r (that is, (not-a and r)pisamore complete theory at both ends than ap). then the proper focus of progressive research should be specifying the repair assumption rand exploring its implications, in conjunction with more accurate assumptions. second, the importance of making good predictions (1) is precisely the reason to explore alternative assumptions grounded in psychological and neuroscientic facts. we do this in behavioural economics because we hopethat models based on more accurate assumptions will make some interestingnew predictions, and better predictions overall. as-if models based on dubious assumptions clearly work well in many respects, and always will (just as expected value is still a useful tool for some kinds of analysis, even though it is a severe restriction of expected utility). buttests of the predictions that follow from as-if rational choice have also estab- lished many empirical anomalies. behavioural economics describes theseregularities and suggests formal models to explain them (camerer, 2007). debates between rational-choice and behavioural models usually revolve around psychological constructs, such as loss-aversion (kahneman andtversky, 1979), the role of learning and limited strategic thinking, a prefer-ence for immediate rewards, and precise pr eferences over social allocations, which have not been observed