p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 323 well-specied optimization problems wer esupposed to provide a secure basis for economic prediction. in other words, macroeconomics must bereduced to microeconomics. the conviction that macroeconomics must possess microfoundations has changed the face of the discipline in the lastquarter century. that the argument for microfoundations should have been so successful rhetorically is, i think, puzzling. for it ignores the obvious difculties in empirical implementation posed by the cournot problem. as i said before,no one believes that economists can practicably trace the decision problemsof millions of individuals and aggregate them to discover macroeconomicbehavior. the intellectual triumph of microfoundations is grounded not inmethodological individualism (that is, in a strategy of basing all empiricalexplanations on the behavior of individuals) but in ontological individualism (the conviction that the only real entities in the economy are individuals).whocould disagree with that? well, i would. unfortunately, the full argument for this position would take us further down a metaphysical byway than any group of economistsis likely to want to go. still, i would at least like to poke a few holes inthe presumption that ontological individualism is necessarily correct. thefear of the ontological individualist is that if he says that macroeconomicentities like gdp or the general price level are real, he must also say that theyare independent of the individual people who constitute the economy. thesecond claim is, of course, obviously wrong, but ontological individualismdoes not follow from denying it. the relationship between microeconomics and macroeconomics could be one of supervenience. any identical reconguration of the agents inthe economy and their situations results in the same conguration of themacroeconomic entities in the economy, but the mapping is not one to one.what is more, the supervenience of the macroeconomy on