p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 362 colin f. camerer older tools continue to be useful. the electroencephalogram (eeg) recordsvery rapid (millisecond) electrical activity from outer brain areas, and can sometimes be used to interpolate activity in areas deeper in the brain. psychophysiological recording (of skin conductance, heart rate andpupil dilation, for example) are cheap and easy too. tracking where peopleare looking on a screen (eyetracking) is also very easy and useful for manyquestions economists ask. directly observing the information people usetomake decisions provides a second dependent variable that can be used, in conjunction with observed choices, to identify decision rules better thanchoices alone can. agreat strength of neuroscience is that investigators who have mastered these tools compete ercely (for grants, students, and space in science and natu re);their erce competition creates a bonus for methodological inno- vation and weeds out weak results. the tools are also complements becauseeach tool can compensate for the weaknesses of others (e.g., having an fmrinding makes data from patients with lesions in the areas identied by fmriespecially valuable). recognising this complementarity, neuro-scientists aremost comfortable with ideas that are consistent with many types of datarecorded in different ways at different levels of temporal and spatial res- olution. happily for econo mists, many of our simplest questions can be illuminated by the simple measures (e.g., eye tracking and psychophysio-logical recording). ambitious graduate students interested in this eld arewell advised to pick one tool that can help answer the questions they are interested in, and master it. neuroeconomics is likely to provide three types of evidence about eco- nomic behaviour. examples of each type of evidence are given in the nextthree sections of this paper. 3the three kinds of evidence are: 1. evidence which shows mechanisms that implement rational