p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 234 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson although more provocative and transparent than most normative eco- nomics, summerss memorandum exemplies common features of main- stream economic evaluation. normative economists typically attempt tooffer policy advice while setting aside considerations such as intrinsic rightstocertain goods, moral reasons, social concerns. they focus exclusively on welfare, which they associate with preference and willingness to pay. so nor- mative economics is welfare economics. normative economists also typicallymake inferences concerning welfare on the basis of data concerning willing-ness to pay, and these inferences are inevitably biased toward the preferencesof those who are rich. 4 letusthen back up and spend some time with the philosophical founda- tions. why do normative economists focus exclusively on welfare, and whyare they committed to this theory of welfare? 3. individualism, rationality, and self-interest atthe core of both positive economics and welfare economics lie controver- sial commitments to individualism and to a particular view of human nature . inparticular, one should distinguish three varieties of individualism: onto- logical, explanatory, and ethical individualism and two views of humannature: human nature as rational and human nature as self-interested. inits simplest formulation, ontological individualism maintains that only mental states and physical objects, including human beings, are real. cul-tures, social institutions, and so forth are not real. they must be understoodinstead as reications of features of the physical environment or of the phys-ical and mental states of people. ontological individualism is untenable anddifcult to formulate sensibly. we mention it only to distinguish it sharplyfrom explanatory and ethical individualism. explanatory individualism (or what is often called methodological indi- vidualism) can be interpreted in many ways. sometimes, it is interpreted as the view that explanations of social phenomena that refer to social enti-ties