p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 405 and committed in their use of interdisciplinary resources, but interdisci- plinarity does not dene institutionalism. the old institutionalism emphasizes the importance of institutions in economic life, and attempts to understand their role and their evolution.especially in the 19401975 period, mainstream economists neglected thestudy of institutions. this is not the case today. with the arrival of the newinstitutional economics, mainstream economists have analyzed institutions,albeit as outcomes of decisions of rational, maximizing agents. the oldinstitutionalists, cannot claim to be the only school of economics to studyinstitutions. consider the idea that institutional economics is evolutionary. the nugget of truth here is that institutionalist writing is concerned with pro- cesses of structural transformation, emergence and change, which are often neglected in the mainstream literature. the problem, however, is that thewordevolutionary is extremely vague. it is now widely used, even by economists using neoclassical techniques. evolutionary game theory ishighly fashionable. even walras is described as an evolutionary economist[jolink 1996 ]. above all, evolutionary is now a voguish word that everyone seems keen to use. in precise terms it signies little or nothing. some take ittomean the use of biological analogies; other self-proclaimed evolutionary economists see no value in them. a narrower and more precise mean-ing of evolutionary that successfully demarcates institutionalism fromother approaches has not yet been elucidated or adopted [hodgson 1993b , 1999 ]. wecome to the institutionalist understanding of the economy as an open system. this is clearly an important insight of the old institutional eco-nomics, at least in the sense that it is recognized that the economy is part ofanatural environment, embodied in a system of social relations, and affected bytechnological and other changes. so far so good. the problem