p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 235 acceptable only because economists believe that the value of the multiplier can at least in principle be explained in terms of individual preferences,beliefs, and choices given specic initial conditions. the explanatory indi-vidualism to which most economists subscribe concedes that social entities and facts have causal consequences, but it insists that those consequencesare mediated by the beliefs, preferences, and choices of individuals. we arenot sure whether this version of explanatory individualism is ultimatelydefensible. before turning in the next section toethical individualism, let us explore how explanatory individualism interacts with the two theses concerningrationality to determine the broad outlines of mainstream economics. the rst of the two theses concerning human nature is that human beings arerational .the core idea is that explanations of individual choices also often justify those choices. the factors that cause choices also function as rea- sonsfor choices. people act for reasons and it is typically possible to justify their actions in terms of their beliefs and preferences. if one conjoins thisbasic view of human nature with explanatory individualism, one arrivesat the view that the central explanatory principles of economics should beprinciples of rational individual choice. accordingly, one nds that a theory of rationality lies at the heart of both positive and normative mainstream economics. although many economistsidentify rationality and material self-interest, the ofcial theory of rationalitydenies that any particular objective, such as self-interest, is any more or lessrational than any other objective. the ofcial theory of rationality is formal . rationality lies in the structure orform of choice and preferences, not in the content of what is preferred or chosen. the theory of rationality embedded in mainstream economics states that individuals choose (or act) rationally if