p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 493 deductive reasoning to work out what effects these factors will have in par- ticular controlled environments. so is this what akerlof and schelling are doing? even though neither author explicitly proposes a testable hypothesis, we might perhaps inter-pret them as implicitly proposing ceteris paribus hypotheses. (later, i shall suggest what these hypotheses might be.) but if akerlofs and schellingsmodels are to be understood as instances of the inexact deductive method,each model must be interpreted as the deductive machinery which gener-ates the relevant hypothesis. for such an interpretation to be possible, wemust be able to identify the simplifying assumptions of the model with the ceteris paribus or non-interference clauses of the hypothesis. that is, if the hypothesis takes the form x is the case, provided there is no interference of types i 1,...,in,then the model must deduce x from the conjunction of two sets of assumptions. the rst set contains credible and pragmati-cally convenient generalizations preferably ones which have been usedsuccessfully in previous applications of the inexact deductive method. the second set of assumptions which m aki would call isolations postulate the non-existence of i 1,...,in. takeakerlofs model. can its assumptions be understood in this way? some certainly can. for example, akerlof implicity assumes that each tradermaximizes expected utility. correctly or incorrectly, most economists regardexpected utility maximization as a well-grounded generalization about human behaviour; there are (it is thought) occasional exceptions, but these can safely be handled by implicit non-interference clauses. similarly, akerlofassumes that if an equilibrium price exists in a market, that price will comeabout, and the market will clear. this, too, is a generalization that mosteconomists regard as well-grounded. there is a standing presumption ineconomics that, if an empirical statement is deduced