p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 360 colin f. camerer macro phenomena might spring from the interaction of many brains that are tightly linked through social networks and common responses to emo-tional and news shocks which can be reciprocal or contagious. if so, macromodels could explore how the result of brain activity has a multiplier effectin the economy. 1. neuroscientic facts and tools 1.1. facts some basic facts about the human brain are useful for economists to know,tounderstand the evidence presented below and to provide constraint on theorising. the brain is weakly modular, in the sense that not every brain area con- tributes to every behaviour. (that is, the early phrenologists were on the right track, but had too crude a concept of how localised complex behaviour or traits like virtue and sloth were.) while the brain is modular, it isalso plastic responsive to environment as brain software is graduallyinstalled . plasticity is most obvious in childhood development but seemstocontinue well into adolescence. plasticity is the reason why neuroscientists usually bristle at the term hard-wired , which economists often use casually. while neuroscientists often focus on specic brain areas which are cyto- architecturally distinct (i.e., they have distinct tissue, neurons, and neuro-transmitters), for tasks economists are interested in the proper focus is cir- cuits of multiple brain areas. the importance of circuitry also implies thatthe right kinds of models are computational ones in which well-understoodcomponents collaborate to create behaviour. attention and consciousness are scarce, and the brain is evolved to off- load decisions by automating activity through learning. automaticity meansthat people are capable of creating tremendous expertise which relies on sub-conscious intuition and pattern recognition. it also means that overcoming automated behaviour takes scarce conscious effort and is often a source ofmistakes