p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 464 julie a. nelson and substance on the other, with the methodological approach itself left unchallenged, such an argument seems to suggest that knowledge of facts,institutional information, data, r eal-world issues, applications and policy problems (p. 1046) occurs by direct absorption. y et careful and systematicseeking out of information and good nonformal reasoning about real eco-nomic issues can only be accomplished through mastery of correspondingskills, such as (to start with) library research methods and techniques ofcritical reading. if it is recognized that such skills are just as valid, and justas teachable, as formal and abstract techniques, then the problem indeedincludes the issue of balance in methods. as a practical matter, the cogeereport includes a number of specic suggestions about prerequisites, course syllabi, content, assignments, etc. that would begin to move graduate depart-ments somewhat toward educating students to become more competent inanalyzing actual economic problems. calls for increased attention to the nuts and bolts of empirical work bydistinguished economists such as thomas mayer ( 1993 )and lawrence summers ( 1991 )arealso calls for changes in the value system of economics that feminists can join and endorse. economists tend to be highly skilledin mathematical and statistical theory. however, we generally demonstratefar less skill in other aspects of scientic empirical work like the seeking outof new data sources, the improvement of data collection, responsible datacleaning and quality evaluation, replicatio n, sensitivity testing, proper dis- tinction between statistical and substantive signicance, and data archiving(for example, dewald, thursby, and anderson, 1986 ). empirical work char- acterized by such a continual renement of abstract theory, accompanied byan egregious neglect of concrete detail, has been described by mayer ( 1993 , p.132) as driving a mercedes down a cow track. while a few