p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 capability and well-being 283 11. incompleteness and substance the aristotelian critique points towards a more general issue, namely, that of the incompleteness of the capability approach both in generating sub-stantive judgements and in providing a comprehensive theory of valuation.quite different specic theories of value may be consistent with the capabil-ity approach, and share the common feature of selecting value-objects fromfunctionings and capabilities. further, the capability approach can be usedwith different methods of determining relative weights and different mecha- nisms for actual evaluation. the approach, if seen as a theory of algorithmicevaluation, would be clearly incomplete. 40 itmay well be asked: why pause at outlining a general approach, with various bits to be lled in, rather than completing the task? the motivationunderlying the pause relates to the recognition that an agreement on theusability of the capability approach an agreement on the nature of thespace of value-objects need not presuppose an agreement on how the valu- ational exercise may be completed. it is possible to disagree both on the exactgrounds underlying the determination of relative weights, and on the actual relative weights chosen, 41even when there is reasoned agreement on the general nature of the value-objects (in this case, personal functionings andcapabilities). if reasoned agreement is seen as an important foundationalquality central to political and social ethics, 42then the case for the pause is not so hard to understand. the fact that the capability approach isconsistent and combinable with several different substantive theories need not be a source of embarrassment. interestingly enough, despite this incompleteness, the capability approach does have considerable cutting power . in fact, the more challenging part ofthe claim in favour of the capability approach lies in what it denies. it differsfrom the standard utility-based