p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 3 the economic approach is the only sensible theoretical approach to the study of human behavior. this provocative claim that economics is themodel that allsocial sciences must follow obviously makes method- ological questions concerning economics more important to other socialscientists. inthe 1970s and 1980s, it was ironic that some economists were mak- ing grandiose claims for the universal validity of the economic approach tohuman behavior at the same time that others had serious qualms about their owndiscipline. as those qualms have faded, so has this irony. there is, how- ever, a second ironical twist, which constitutes the second theoretical reason why interest in the methodology of economics has increased. during thesame period that grand claims have been made for the economic approach tohuman behavior, cognitive psychologists and economists impressed by the workof cognitive psychologists have shown that many of the fundamental claims of modern mainstream economics are refuted by economic experi-mentation. the rapid expansion of experimentation, which is discussed invernon smiths essay (chapter 18)and of behavioral and neuroeconomics, which is discussed in colin f. camerers essay (chapter 19), raise intriguing methodological questions. finally, there are special reasons why philosophers have become more interested in the methodology of economics. contemporary philosophersof science have become convinced that a great deal can be learned abouthow science ought to be done from studying how science actually is done.although most philosophers who are interested in the sciences study thenatural sciences, economics is of particular philosophical interest. notonly does it possess the methodolog ical peculiarities sketched above, but moral philosophers, whether attracted or repelled by the tools provided byeconomists and game theorists, need to come to terms with welfare eco-nomics (which is discussed in part iiiof this anthology). forthese reasons,