p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 neuroeconomics 371 5. conclusion the goal of neuroeconomics is to ground economic theory in details of how the brain works in decision making, strategic thinking, and exchange. oneway to achieve this is to observe processes and constructs which are typicallyconsidered unobservable, to decide between many theories of behavioural anomalies like risk aversion, altruistic punishment, and reciprocity. ihavepresented examples in which neuroeconomic evidence points to any of three conclusions. sometimes rational-choice processes are clearlyevident in brain activity (lip neurons that re at rates almost exactly lin- ear in expected reward). in other cases, the variables or differences pre-dicted by behavioural economics models are evident in discount- ing, ambiguity-aversion and nonlinear probability weighting. in still anothercase, perhaps the most innovative, variables that are not a traditional focusof economic theory have perceptible ef fects and, sometimes, strong effects: patients with ofc damage are unusually ambiguity-neutral (which is con-sistent with fmri evidence identifying the ofc as a locus of ambiguity-aversion processing); pupil dilation helps predict a players private informa- tion when they might be lying; stimulating dlpfc increases acceptance oflow ultimatum offers (because earlier fmri work showed dlpfc activityis correlated with acceptance); and administering oxytocin makes peoplemore trusting. thinking about how the brain implements economic decisions, com- pared to thinking about choices resulting from preference and belief, is likeswitching from watching tv in black and white to watching in colour thereare so many more variables to think about. for economic theorists, a naturalway to think about these phenomena is that many biological state variablesinuence preferences; given those state-dependent preferences, prices andbudget constraints have familiar inuences. i agree with this view, exceptthat we will never fully understand the nature of the state-dependence with-out facts from psychology and neuroscience. furthermore, it is