p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 229 of different people. summers does not claim that trade in pollution would maximize total or average welfare. 7. in addition to focusing exclusively on the welfare implications of shift- ing pollution, the memorandum suggests that there is a qualitative difference between the impeccable economic logic of dumping a load of toxic waste in the lowest-wage country [our emphasis] andmiscellaneous and unspecied ethical objections in terms of intrinsicrights to certain goods, moral reasons, social concern, lack of adequate markets, etc. summers implies that the welfare arguments are rigor-ous and worth taking seriously, while the miscellaneous objections canbe disregarded. 1although welfare economists rarely deny that other moral considerations are relevant to evaluating policies and outcomes,they are often suspicious, impatient, or even contemptuous of otherethical concerns. some of these seven features of welfare economics are widely shared in the thought and culture of modern liberal democracies, whereas othersare more distinctive to mainstream economics. none of these features ofwelfare economics, even these that are widely shared with liberal social theory more generally, is inevitable. each involves a choice, and each featurecould be questioned or changed. these choices are both methodological and ethical. although welfare is obviously very important, so is freedomand so is justice. normative economics might focus on them in additiontoor instead of welfare. there are alternatives, and to choose among them requires ethical reection. table 13.1 lists some of the alternatives to the choices economists have made and helps to make clear what is distinctive about the standards ofevaluation that normative economics relies on. 2. summerss argument airand water pollution lessen the quality of life in many ways, yet most kinds of pollution have no market prices, because it is