p1: jzp 9780521883504c20 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:30 the market as a creative process 391 any diagnosis of failure or success, diagnosis that is necessarily preliminary toany normative usage of scientic analysis. wemay illustrate the differing implications in application to the observed failure of the centrally planned economies of eastern europe and elsewhere.the neoclassical economist, trapped in the allocationist perception, tends tolocate the source of failure in the distorted incentive structure that causes persons to be confronted with choice alternatives that do not reect authen-tically derived evaluations. resources do not ow to their most highly valueduses because persons who make decisions about resource use do not ndit privately in their own interest to shift allocation in such fashion as toaccomplish this conceptually denable, and desirable, result. some of the modern austrian economists, and notably kirzner, add an important element to the neoclassical critique. they suggest that, even ifthe incentive problems could, somehow, be ignored or assumed corrected,there would still remain the epistemological or knowledge problem. onlyadecentralized market structure of economic interaction can exploit fully the knowledge of localized circumstances required to allow a denitionof the ultimate valuation that is placed on resource use. only the marketcan allow persons the effective liberty to discover the particular localizedeccentricities that give form to value. this extension of the neoclassicalemphasis on incentive structures is important and relevant to any overallassessment of the central planning model for an economy. wesuggest, however, that the critique, even as extended, falls short of capturing an essential element in any comparative assessment of the mar-ketand the planning alternatives. the teleological feature remains to be exorcised. in the neoclassical setting, even as extended by kirzner, an omni- scientand benevolent monolithic planner could secure the ideally dened result. omniscience would, of course, insure access to