p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 341 know only their own prizes (and each others percentage of the lottery tick- ets), the outcome conforms to the nash bargaining solution. when thebargainers also know each others prizes the nash prediction fails; in short,nash theory is not falsied, it is just not robust with respect to the bargainers knowing both prizes. the principle that less information can be advantageous also applies under asymmetric payoff information in which schelling ( 1957 )argued that the less informed bargainer may have an advantage over a completelyinformed adversary. in fact, siegel and fouraker ( 1960 )observed this to be the case. the better informed bargainer, knowing that the other playerknew only his own payoff, is more forgiving when his opponent makeslarge demands. this concessionary posture works to the disadvantage of thecompletely informed player. camerer, loewenstein and weber ( 1989 )call this the curse of knowledge and report new evidence in a market setting. common information is not sufcient to yield common expectations or knowledge ithas been argued that game theory requires common knowledge. 5this arbitrarily limits the value of game theory in organizing experimental data,and directs our attention away from the fact that we must understand theprocess of achieving common knowledge if game theory is to make progressin predicting behavior. this is implicitly recognized by the growing currentinterest among game theorists in concepts of bounded rationality and oflearning. although i believe these are conceptually the right directions totake, if the exercises are guided by introspective model development, unin-formed by observations and testing, they are unlikely to achieve their fullpredictive potential. experimentalists have attempted to implement the condition of com- mon knowledge by publicly announcing instructions, payoffs, and otherconditions in an experiment. some examples of