p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 338 vernon smith maximizing the gains from exchange at prices tending to converge to com- petitive equilibria (smith, 1991 ,1). what we have learned since is that this is just one of many illustrations of the principle that institutions matter. this isbecause the rules determine the information states and individual incentivesin the trading game: institutions matter because incentives and informationmatter. consequently, posted offer retail pricing converges more slowly anderratically and is less efcient than continuous double auction (plott andsmith, 1978 ). unlike the latter, sellers receive no continuous bid price infor- mation from competing buyers. also, sellers must quote one price per periodfor all units making price cuts more costly. does this mean that posted offers are inferior to continuous double auction? no. the experiments evaluate o nly the allocative properties of the two mechanism, and do not address their different transactions cost prop-erties. with continuous double auction, every trade involves decentralizedmultilateral negotiation, while pricing is centralized in a posted offer sys- tem, and clerks need have no bargaining skills. the latter is cost effective for mass retail distribution, the former has been well-suited to the broker-dealerstructure of securities markets. asearly as 1965 (smith, 1991 ,4), an extreme environment was used as a stress-test to explore the limits of the ability of the continuous double auctiontogenerate competitive equilibria. this was the swastika environment in which the demand price is constant up to a maximum quantity, andthe supply price (below demand price) is also constant up to a maximumquantity greater than the maximum demand quantity. if you draw thesedemand and supply curves you see what looks like a swastika emblem.suchmarkets still performed efciently, but convergence to the competitive equilibrium was slow and erratic when the excess supply