p1: jzp 9780521883504c05 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:4 selected texts on economics, history, and social science 125 be among the russians, for instance, naturally developed predispositions. butinthe rst place, there is an enormous difference between barbarians having a predisposition which makes it possible to employ them in varioustasks, and civilised people who apply themselves to various tasks. as regardsthe russians, moreover, their indifference to the particular kind of labourperformed is in practice matched by their traditional habit of clinging fasttoav ery denite kind of labour from which they are extricated only by external inuences. the example of labour strikingly demonstrates how even the most abstract categories, despite their validity in all epochs precisely becausethey are abstractions are equally a product of historical conditions evenin the specic form of abstractions, and they retain their full validity onlyfor and within the framework of these conditions. bourgeois society is the most advanced and complex historical organ- isation of production. the categories which express its relations, and anunderstanding of its structure, therefore, provide an insight into the struc-ture and the relations of production of all formerly existing social formations the ruins and component elements of which were used in the creation ofbourgeois society. some of these unassimilated remains are still carried onwithin bourgeois society, others, however, which previously existed only in rudimentary form, have been further developed and have attained their full signicance, etc. the anatomy of man is a key to the anatomy of the ape. onthe other hand, rudiments of more advanced forms in the lower species ofanimals can only be understood when the more advanced forms are alreadyknown. bourgeois economy thus provides a key to the economy of antiquity,etc. but it is quite impossible (to gain this insight) in the manner of thoseeconomists who obliterate