p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 31 and to what extent this work will help economists to address the questions concerning monetary policy, tax incidence, or economic welfare are hotly contested matters.36 these are but three of many approaches, which, in addition to mainstream neoclassical economics, occupy contemporary economists. a few othersdeserve to be mentioned. neo-ricardians believe that one can do better inunderstanding economies by employing modern mathematical reformula-tions and extensions of ricardos economics than by employing its neoclas-sical successor. 37austrian economists agree with neoclassical economists on the central generalizations of economics, but stress the importance ofuncertainty, disequilibrium, and a subjective point of view (chapter 20). because of these factors, they regard sophisticated mathematical analysesof equilibria as misleading. 38post-keynesian economists often offer simi- lar criticisms of high theory, but unlike the austrians, they tend to defendinterventionist policies. 39economic forecasters often depend very little on any specic economic theory. and the list could be extended. althoughcontemporary economics is dominated by mainstream microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics, there is lots more going on. an introduction to economic methodology john stuart mills 1836 essay, with which this analogy begins, is one of the rst discussions of the methodology of economics, and it is still one of thebest. from the perspective of a staunch empiricist like mill, economics is apuzzling science. its conclusions, which mill accepts, are rarely tested, andthey sometimes appear to be disconrme d. specic predictions based on economic theory are inexact and sometimes dead wrong. how can millreconcile his condence in economics and his empiricism? inmills view, the basic premises of economics are either psychological claims, which are established by introspection, or technical claims, such asthe law of diminishing returns, which are established directly by experimen-tation. these premises state how specic causal