p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 18 introd uction according to lakatos, a modication of a theory is an improvement if it is not ad hoc .modications may be ad hoc in three ways.24ifam odi- cation of a theory has no new testable implications at all, it is empty and unscientic. modications that are not ad hoc in this rst sense are theo- retically progressive. if the testable implications of theoretically progressive modications are not conrmed by observation, then these modicationsare not empirically progressive, and they are thereby ad hoc in the second sense. lakatos maintains that an extended process of theory modicationis progressive overall, if the modicatio ns are uniformly theoretically pro- gressive and intermittently empirically progressive. as scientists revise their theories in the hope of improving them, the changes must always have newtestable implications; and those testable implications must sometimes be borne out by experiment and observat ion. in addition, there must be con- tinuity throughout this history of repeated modication. economists donot make theoretical progress by tacking on unrelated generalizations fromchemistry. adding the generalization that copper conducts electricity to monetary theory results in new testable implications, but such a modica-tion is ad hoc in a third sense. lakatos insists that science is and should be dominated by scientic research programs. these consist of a series of related theories that pos- sesses a hard core, which the negative heuristic insists must be pre-served through all modications of particular theories within the researchprogram. in addition, the research program contains a a positive heuristicthat directs scientists in making modications. particular changes withinaresearch program should be assessed by considering to what extent they are theoretically and empirically progressive and to what extent they are inaccordance with the positive heuristic of the research program.