p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 12 introd uction what ultimately count are the claims that models permit scientists to make about the world, science does not proceed by spotting correlations amongalready known properties of things. an absolutely crucial part of the scien-tic endeavor is the construction of new concepts, of new ways of classifyingphenomena. and much of science is devoted to thinking about these con-cepts, relating them to other concepts and exploring their implications. this kind of endeavor is prominent in economics, where economists oftenexplore the implications of perfect rationalit y,perfect information and per- fect competition, without immediate concerns about empirical applicationor testing. assessment and demarcation most people are empiricists about theory assessment: they believe that the evidence that ultimately leads scientists to accept or to reject claims about the world should be perceptual or observational evidence. according to empiricists, economists should believe that individuals generally prefer morecommodities to fewer, if and only if this claim is borne out by experience. empiricism is not completely uncontroversial. kant argued in his critique of pure reason that there are some synthetic truths about the world such as the axioms of euclidean geometry that can be known ap riorithat is, without specic sensory conrmation. he maintains that these propositions are implied by the very possibility of having any conscious experience of theworld. no specic observations or experiences could ever lead us to believe that such propositions were false. modern physics has not dealt kindly with kants view that the axioms of euclidean geometry are ap rioritruths, but the kantian view that there are synthetic ap rioritruths still has supporters among so-called austrian economists, especially ludwig von mises and his followers. they argue thatthe fundamental postulates of economics are synthetic ap rioritruths. 11i shall not