p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 366 colin f. camerer caudate (a temporal lobe area including the striatum) responds to antici- pated reward. hsu etal.(2006) set out to see whether activation in the stria- tum responded nonlinearly to probability of winning. they rst presentedsimple binary gambles (p, x)which have a p chance of paying x(otherwise they pay zero) for a few seconds, then had subjects choose between the pre-sented gamble and a second gamble (roughly matched for expected value).the choice data enable estimation of parameters of a probability weightingfunction (p). they look at activity in the left and right caudate areas an area in the temporal lobe associated with rewards of many types (juice,cocaine, attractive faces, money, faces of people who have cooperated with you). controlling for the payoff amount x,there is a modest nonlinearity of activity across levels of probability p which is reasonably similar to the non-linear functions shown in prelec (1998). this similarity of indirect estimatesand direct estimates of caudate activity is not conclusive proof that the brainis weighing probabilities nonlinearly, but it is consistent with that hypoth-esis. a likely explanation is that probability estimation is a combination ofalinear weighting and an inverse-s step function which sorts probabilities crudely into no, maybe, yes . 5combining the two gives a regressive function that overweighs low p and underweighs high p, and is consistent with thebrain acti vation. 3.4. limited strategic thinking ingame theory, players are in equilibrium when they optimise and guess correctly what other players will do that is, when their beliefs about other players strategies match the actual strategies others choose. camerer etal. (2004) describe an alternative cognitive hierarchy (ch) theory in whichplayers use various steps of strategic thinking. some step-0 players ran-domise, other step-1 players anticipate randomisation