p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 307 judged varies with what one seeks to observe. filters that allow ultraviolet light to be singled out may wreck the normal visual spectrum. whether ornot this is good depends upon whether one wants to see ultraviolet andnot green or blue. econometric calculations are the economists telescope,and the restrictions implicit in the specication of a regression, for exam-ple, act like the ultraviolet lter. the observations made with econometriccalculations are observations of conuent relations, the consequences of the(probably) unknown data-generating process. as such they are the grist forthe mill of theory. they are what theory must explain. theory may in turnsuggest new restrictions on econometric calculations as likely to be moreilluminating than the initial ones. the ideal theory, nevertheless, explainsnot only these new results, but allobservations that is, it encompasses them. the strong apriorist view that econometrics should measure the coefcientsof the data-generating process is clearly untenable. it amounts to the samething as suggesting that astronomers directly observe newtons laws withtheir telescopes, rather than the complex consequences for the planets ofthose laws. the view adopted here that econometrics is best thought of as the obser- vation of conuent relations shades into weak apriorism. it differs mainlyin that it distinguishes sharply, as the weak apriorist does not, between theunobservable, but ultimately constraining, data-generating process and theobserved conuent relations. haavelmo, for example, treats autonomy ineconometric relations as a matter of degree. similarly, zellner identies law- likeness with invariance to a broad range of circumstances and boundaryconditions. 10this may be a good standard for law-likeness ,b u t on the present view an actual lawis distinguished in kind from such empirical relations by being an element of the data-generating process itself. the analogy between econometrics and observational