p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 feminism and economics 469 tofocus so narrowly on higher education. when i teach this subject, i nd it helpful to add readings about earlier human capital development and to ask students to reect back on the creation of their abilities and aspirations,from the very start of their lives. the question of topics cannot be unlinked from the earlier questions raised about models and methods. consider how biases in models and methods have distorted the development of one research program that fromthe start has been concerned with household issues: the economics literatureon household equivalence scales. such scales adjust measures of householdincome for differences in household size and composition. these scalesare in daily policy use in, for example, setting equitable levels of socialbenets across households of different size, as well as being frequently usedbyresearchers in studies of income distribution. the economic literature on household equivalence scales has, however, moved further and further away from questions of policy relevance (nelson,1993a ). first, while policy applications are often concerned centrally with the welfare of children (for example, in setting levels for aid to families withdependent children), forcing the question into a utility-theoretic frame-work(in which the scale is interpreted as a ratio of expenditure functions) has led to household welfare being generally modeled as the welfare of theadults. some of the most highly regarded models imply that adults will, in fact, substitute away from goods consumed largely by children when they are present. second, while early empirical estimation of equivalence scalesdepended largely on prescriptive budget studies that listed how much eachtype of household would require for food, rent, and so on, more recent empirical practice has been characterized by greater subtlety and sophis-tication. unfortunately, the estimation of scales using large-scale demandsystem