p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 331 the physicists ideal gas, marshall wanted to describe the usual behavior of a gas molecule under certain ideal conditions. the use of representative-agentmodels in modern macroeconomics attempts something quite different. itattempts to describe the behavior of the gas (its pressure and volume), notbyconsidering seriously how the molecules behave in aggregate, but by analyzing the gas as if it were one big molecule subject to the laws that infact govern real molecules. this is a category mistake: pressure and volumeare descriptions of the properties of aggregates properties that individualmolecules either in reality or idealized to colossal size do not possess asisolated units. on the analogy with gases, we should conclude that what happens to the microeconomy is relevant to the macroeconomy but that macroeconomicshas its own descriptive categories and may have its own modes of analysis.itis almost certain that, just as in the case of gases, no genuine micro- foundations can ever be provided for macroeconomics that do not makeconcessions to the macrolevel in the form of statistical assumptions about the distributions of important microeconomic characteristics. and, giventhose concessions, it is almost certain that macroeconomics cannot be euth-anized or eliminated. it shall remain necessary for the serious economist toswitch back and forth between microeconomics and a relatively autonomousmacroeconomics depending upon the problem in hand. suggested readings asobserved in this lecture, the history of microfoundations is a long one. the modern obsession with microfoundations as the sine qua non of macroeco-nomics can be dated to robert e. lucas, jr.s econometric policy evaluation:acritique (originally published in karl brunner and allan h. meltzer [eds.], the phillips curve and labor markets ,vol. 1 of carnegie-rochester conference series on public policy, amsterdam: north-holland, 1976, and reprinted in