p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 408 geoffrey m. hodgson instead of a bedrock of given individual, presumed by the mainstream and new institutional economics, the old institutionalism holds to the idea of interactive and partially malleable ag ents, mutually entwined in a web of partially durable and self-reinforcing institutions [hodgson 1988 ]. no other criterion demarcates so clearly the old institutional economics, on the onehand, from new institutional and mainstream economics on the other[hodgson 1993a ]. notethat the acceptance of the institutionalized individual does not immediately rule out the possibility that institutionalism and neoclassicaleconomics may be complementary. although veblen wished to purge eco-nomics of classical and neoclassical errors, other institutionalists searchedfor some complementarity between neoclassical and institutional eco-nomics. this group included leading institutionalists such as commons,mitchell, j. m. clark, paul douglas, and arthur f. burns. they all saw institu- tionalism as compatible with aspects of marshallian price theory. commons [1931 ]inparticular argued for some complementarity between the schools. this is a controversial position. but it shows that the complete exclusionof neoclassical economics from institutionalism would rule out commonsand others from the institutionalist canon. upward and downward causation having identied the most important common theme in old institutional- ism, it is necessary to enquire more deeply into its meaning. several versionsof this doctrine have surfaced over the years. it is also necessary to deal withsome potential misunderstandings and rebuttals. perhaps the most frequent attack on the notion that individual tastes and preferences are molded by circumstances is the criticism that this leads tosome kind of structural or cultural determinism. the individual, it is said,is made a puppet of social or cultural circumstances. admittedly, some old institutionalists have promoted such a deterministic view.whe na yr es [1961 ,175] wrote that there is no