p1: jzp 9780521883504c03 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:8 82 lionel robbins of the leaders of the younger historical school,16who were the spearhead of the attack on international liberalism in the bismarckian era. it is equally the case to-day with the lesser schools which adopt a similar attitude. the onlydifference between institutionalism and historismus is that historismus is much mo reinteresting. 4. if the argument which has been developed above is correct, economic analysis turns out to be as fetter has emphasised, 17the elucidation of the implications of the necessity of choice in various assumed circumstances.inpure mechanics we explore the implication of the existence of certain givenproperties of bodies. in pure economics we examine the implication of the existence of scarce means with alternative uses. as we have seen,the assumption of relative valuations is the foundation of all subsequentcomplications. itis sometimes thought, even at the present day, that this notion of relative valuation depends upon the validity of particular psychological doctrines.the borderlands of economics are the happy hunting-ground of mindsaverse to the effort of exact thought, and, in these ambiguous regions, in recent years, endless time has been devote dtoattacks on the alleged psycho- logical assumptions of economic science. psychology, it is said, advancesveryrapidly. if, therefore, economics rests upon particular psychological doctrines, there is no task more ready to hand than every ve years or so towrite sharp polemics showing that, since psychology has changed its fashion, economics needs rewriting from the foundations upwards . as might beexpected, the opportunity has not been neglected. professional economists, absorbed in the exciting task of discovering new truth, have usually disdainedtoreply: and the lay public, ever anxious to escape a necessity of recognising the implications of choice in a world of scarcity, has allowed itself to bebamboozled into