p1: jzp 9780521883504c25 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:40 458 julie a. nelson human cognition is not limited to such simple two-way associations, how- ever. consider the different interpretations we can make if we think of gender and value, instead of as marking out the same space, as operating in orthogonal dimensions. then we can think of there being both valuable andharmful aspects to qualies culturally associated with masculinity, as wellas both valuable and harmful aspects to traits associated with femininity(nelson, 1992 ). consider, for example, the idea that a hard economics is clearly prefer- able to a soft economics. this judgment relies on an association of hard-ness with valuable, masculine-associated strength, and softness with inferior,feminine-associated weakness. however, hardness may also mean rigidity,just as softness may also imply exibility. a pursuit of masculine hardnessthat spurns all association with femininity (and hence with exibility) canlead to rigidity, just as surely as a pursuit of feminine softness (withoutcorresponding strength) leads to weakness. there is no benet to special- ization on the side of one gender: neither rigidity nor weakness, the twoextremes of hardness and softness, is desirable. there is benet, however, from exploiting complementarity. strength tempered with exibility wouldyield a balanced and resilient economics. this is just one abstract exam- ple of how new thinking about gender could change how we think aboutdiscipline; many more concrete examples follow. four aspects of economics applying the feminist scholarship on science to economics suggests that the criteria by which we judge good economics have been biased, and that theuse of less-biased criteria of evaluation would lead to a more adequate prac-tice. consider the biases that arise in four different aspects of economics:model, methods, topics, and pedagogy. while critiques and new directionsconcerning the subject matter of economics and teaching may be