p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 305 or too constraining, because they rule out adjustments to the model which might reect possible, but perhaps irrational behavior. the problem withstrong apriorism as a research strategy is principally that it does not nat-urally lead to a progressive development of models or knowledge. and, infact, new classicism has not been able to offer a compelling alternative devicefor making economic predictions to the battered but stalwart communityof macromodellers. for however great the inuence of new classicism, andespecially of the rational expectat ions hypothesis, on economic theory, it has not delivered any decisive empirical results. ascooley and leroy recognize, the thorough-going optimization implicit in new classicism suggests that everything depends on everythingelse, not just in theory, but in practice. such complete interdependence sug-gests that theory does not provide sufcient restrictions to identify structuralmodels. this shows up in the problem of observational equivalence: theoret-ical models which are antithetical neve rtheless imply identical observational consequences (e.g., sargent 1976 ). in the face of such a difculty, cooley and leroy retreat to theory, giving up hope of securing identication unless;there is a theoretical breakthrough. others have given up theory and asked,what can be learned from the data alone? 9 the weak apriorist goes to neither of these extremes. instead he recognizes that belief and inference stand in a relationship of mutuality: inferences arefounded partly on unexamined beliefs; but these inferences, in turn, maysuggest the modication of those beliefs. thus, theory presents us withsome a priori (in the sense of not currently questioned) restrictions on empirical investigation; while the empir ical results help generate beliefs (or new theories) which are prior to furthe rinvestigations. haavelmo expresses the essentials of weak apriorism clearly: howcan we actually distinguish between the