p1: jzp 9780521883504c06 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:2 138 thorstein veblen outcome as if no such institutional factor intervened between the impulse and its realization. the institution of property, together with all the rangeof pecuniary conceptions that belong under it and that cluster about it, arepresumed to give rise to no habitual or conventional canons of conduct orstandards of valuation, no proximate ends, ideals, or aspirations. all pecu-niary notions arising from ownership are treated simply as expedients ofcomputation which mediate between the pain-cost and the pleasure-gain of hedonistic choice, without lag, leak, or friction; they are conceived simplyas the immutably correct, god-given notation of the hedonistic calculus. the modern economic situation is a business situation, in that economic activity of all kinds is commonly controlled by business considerations. theexigencies of modern life are commonly pecuniary exigencies. that is to say they are exigencies of the ownership of property. productive efciencyand distributive gain are both rated in terms of price. business considera-tions are considerations of price, and pecuniary exigencies of whatever kindin the modern communities are exigencies of price. the current economicsituation is a price system. economic institutions in the modern civilizedscheme of life are (prevailingly) institutions of the price system. the accoun-tancy to which all phenomena of modern economic life are amenable is anaccountancy in terms of price; and by the current convention there is noother recognized scheme of accountancy, no other rating, either in law orin fact, to which the facts of modern life are held amenable. indeed, so greatand pervading a force has this habit (institution) of pecuniary accountancybecome that it extends, often as a matter of course, to many facts whichproperly have no pecuniary bearing and no pecuniary magnitude, as, e.g., worksofart,science, scholarship, and religion. more or less freely and fully,