p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 171 vi. conclusion economics as a positive science is a body of tentatively accepted general- izations about economic phenomena that can be used to predict the con-sequences of changes in circumstances. progress in expanding this body ofgeneralizations, strengthening our condence in their validity, and improv-ing the accuracy of the predictions they yield is hindered not only by thelimitations of human ability that impede all search for knowledge but also byobstacles that are especially important for the social sciences in general and economics in particular, though by no means peculiar to them. familiaritywith the subject matter of economics breeds contempt for special knowl- edge about it. the importance of its subject matter to everyday life and tomajor issues of public policy impedes objectivity and promotes confusionbetween scientic analysis and normative judgment. the necessity of relyingon uncontrolled experience rather than on controlled experiment makes itdifcult to produce dramatic and clear-cut evidence to justify the accep-tance of tentative hypotheses. reliance on uncontrolled experience does notaffect the fundmental methodological principle that a hypothesis can betested only by the conformity of its implications or predictions with observ- able phenomena; but it does render the task of testing hypotheses moredifcult and gives greater scope for confusion about the methodologicalprinciples involved. more than other scientists, social scientists need to beself-conscious about their methodology. one confusion that has been particularly rife and has done much damage is confusion about the role of assumptions in economic analysis. a mean-ingful scientic hypothesis or theory typically asserts that certain forcesare, and other forces are not, important in understanding a particular classof phenomena. it is frequently convenient to present such a hypothesis bystating that the phenomena it is desired to predict behave in