p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 econometrics as observation 309 no doubt changes perhaps, even so frequently that stability is not to be found. nevertheless, econometric observations would be practically uselessif they were completely unstable. we must, therefore, count on ndingsome stability and on supplementing ec onometric observations with other information, say institutional facts, if we are to distinguish between realchanges in structure and our own inability to focus our observations. the criterion of consistency with theory is subject to similar strictures. it isuseful only in that it aids interpretation of observations. we must not joinstrong apriorism in affording it overarching status. observations must givegrounds for reconsidering theoretical commitments. 4. realism versus nominalism inadopting the view that econometrics is an observational tool, we take what is best from weak apriorism, while avoiding the pitfalls of strong apri-orism. our research strategy is progressive, because our observations arealways known to be provisional, subject to improvement on grounds of bet-terstatistical technique or better theoretical interpretability, and because our commitment to a particular theory is not so strong as to preclude mod-ication in the face of observations. inadopting econometrics as observation we also implicitly commit our- selves to metaphysical realism, abjuring the nominalism implicit in strongapriorism. by nominalism i mean the philosophical doctrine that only indi-viduals are real and that general relations (e.g., causality) do not exist inde- pendently of the observer. 12the desire to avoid metaphysics is strong among most economists, having been brought up on the philosophy of logical posi-tivism. but metaphysics cannot be avoided; it can only be done well or badly(cf. peirce 1957 :53, 292, 293). a thorough discussion of nominalism and realism would take us too far down a philosophical byway. the nominalism of apriorist econometricians nonetheless presents a practical difculty