p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 402 geoffrey m. hodgson accepting that normative values are always with us does not mean that weshould always judge a theory primarily by its normative values. t o accept acomplex interrelationship between the positive and the normative does not mean that we abandon all aspects of the dist inction. statements attempting toexplain what isare confused with statements about what ought to be. yet knowing that many people in the world today are poor is not the same thingas saying that they should remain impoverished. while important, normative aspects of institutionalism are not very use- ful, nor sufciently precise, as dening criteria. one can nd a huge diversityof normative opinions within institutionalism. there are prominent exam-ples of fairly conservative institutionalists, such as arthur f. burns a friendof, and collaborator with, veblens student wesley mitchell who advisedrepublican president eisenhower in the 1950s. other institutionalists have socialist views. others are closer to the political center. policy outputs donot tell us very much about the overall nature of institutionalism. anyattempt to dene institutionalism in terms of policy outputs would runinto severe difculties. consider some possible policies. can institu- tionalism be dened, in part, in terms of a critique of market solutions toeconomic problems? manyinstitutionalists have criticized pro-market policies and have pro- posed various forms of economic intervention and planning. however, sotoohaveneoclassical economists. (neoclassical economics is dened as the type of economics invoking the standard textbook principles of rationality, maximization and equilibrium.) the problem of using a disposition towardsplanning and against markets to dene institutionalism would be that manyneoclassical economists would then be institutionalists. manyof the pioneers of neoclassical economic theory, including l eon walras, alfred marshall and philip wicksteed, were sympathetic to socialist or social-democratic ideas. by todays standards, some