p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 why is cost-benet analysis so controversial? 267 like the deontologists, most consequentialists teach their children that steal- ing is wrong as a matter of principle. elsewhere i have argued that onceweacknowledge the strategic role of moral emotions in solving commit- ment problems, this posture is coherent, even in purely consequentialistterms. 27 yetapotentially more worrisome aspec tofthe consequentialist position remains, which is that people who view their ethical choices in cost-benet termsmust also construct their own estimates of the relevant costs and benets. the obvious concern is that their estimates will be self-serving.morethan 90 percent of all drivers, for example, feel sure they are better than average. 28morethan 99 percent of high-school students think they are above average in terms of their ability to get along with others.29ninety- four percent of college professors believe they are more productive thantheir average colleague. 30the same forces that make us overestimate our skills can be expected also to distort the estimates that underlie our ethicaljudgments. and if these self-serving calculations lead some to disregard thecommon good, their example will make others more apt to do likewise. needless to say, people may also be prone to self-serving biases in their interpretations of deontological moral principles. in the end, whichapproach entails the greater risk is an empirical question. but it is at leastpossible that consequentialist thinking could lead to a worse outcome onbalance. if this were shown to be so, consequentialists would have little choicebut to endorse the deontological position (much as an atheist might supportfundamentalist religious institutions on the view that threats of hell-re anddamnation are the only practical way to get people to behave themselves).they would have to view cost-benet analysis as correct in principle yet bestavoided in practice. ihasten