p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 247 order to consent to an unwanted change, obviously also depends on wealth. because preferences in cost-benet analysis are weighted with dollars, andthe poor have fewer of these, their preferences count for less (baker 1975 ). second, cost-benet analysis, like other methods of evaluation employ- ing the pareto criteria, ignores questions of justice, even though, unlike theendorsement of pareto improvements, it supports policies that make somepeople worse off. the compensation considered is only hypothetical. somepeople win and some lose. questions of fairness are obviously pressing insuch circumstances. if each policy had different winners and losers so thatin the long run everyone were a winner as often as he or she were a loser,the unfairness of individual policies taken separately might wash out. butthe bias built into cost-benet analysis against the preferences of the poorsuggests that the unfairness will not wash out. exactly those people whompolicy makers should be most concerned to protect are those who are mostlikely to be harmed. proponents have consequently explored ways of modi-fying cost-benet analysis to compensate for possible injustices (harberger1978 ;little 1957 ), but, in practice, wealth adjustments are seldom made. athird objection to cost-benet analysis is that social policy should not be based on the unreective and unargued preferences that cost-benetanalysts infer from peoples economic choices. some preferences, such aspreferences for communities free of urban sprawl, are hard to signal whenone buys groceries, cars or even homes. furthermore, peoples preferencesfor public goods of all sorts respond to arguments and may be different after public debate than they were before. substituting cost-benet analysis forpublic deliberation means that peoples preferences are never subjected tosuch challenges. preferences that are based on mistaken beliefs wind up withthe