p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 410 geoffrey m. hodgson and unknowable circumstances. we already know essentially what is to be learned. learning typically takes place through and within social structures, and at least in this sense it is an important case of reconstitutive downwardcausation. neoclassical economics has great difculty accommodating thenotion of learning because the very idea of rational learning is problem-atic. it treats learning as the cumulative discovery of pre-existing blueprintinformation, as stimulus and response, or as the bayesian updating of sub-jective probability estimates in the light of incoming data. however, insteadof the mere input of facts to given individuals, learning is a developmen-tal and reconstitutive process. learning involves adaptation to changingcircumstances, and such adaptations mean the reconstitution of the indi-viduals involved. furthermore, institutions and cultures play a vital role in establishing the concepts and norms of the learning process [hodgson1988 ]. accordingly, the reconstitutive nature of learning is partly a matter of reconstitutive downward causation. t o put it bluntly: if we are to accept fully the notion of learning into social theory, then the concept of reconstitutivedownward causation must also be sanctioned. conclusion ithas been argued here that a concern for policy issues may be an attribute of institutional economics but it cannot be its dening characteristic. necessaryfeatures of institutionalism include the recognition of the importance ofinsights from other disciplines, of institutions and of open and evolvingsystems. nevertheless, the single most important characteristic of institutionalism is the idea that the individual is socially and institutionally constituted. the argument here is that all the old institutional economists, from veblen togalbraith, embrace the notion that the individual is molded by cultural orinstitutional circumstances. within institutionalism, there are many vari-ants of this view. however,the notion of reconstitutive downward causation is found