p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 239 paternalism. if whatever people prefer is automatically better for them, then the question of whether it is justiable to coerce people for their own goodcan never even arise. but there are better ways to object to paternalismthan to maintain falsely that people never prefer harmful alternatives. inhis famous critique of paternalism in on liberty (1859 ), john stuart mill criticizes the view that people should be coerced when they make choicesthat frustrate their own ends. he does not argue that whatever people chooseis automatically good for them. there are also more respectable routes to the identication of welfare and the satisfaction of preference. given the two basic theses concerning humannature that mainstream economists accept that individuals are rationaland that they are self-interested people will prefer xtoyif and only if they believe that they will be better off with xthan with y.ifone supposes in addition as positive economists typically do that peoples beliefs aregenerally correct, then people will prefer xtoyif and only if they are in fact better off with xthan with y.regardless of what welfare is,peoples preferences will then be a good guide to what makes them better off. 5. repudiating interpersonal comparisons mainstream normative economics is distinctive, because it focuses almost exclusively on welfare, because it measures welfare by preference satisfac- tion, and because it denies that it is possible to compare welfare levels ordifferences across people. this last feature distinguishes welfare economicssharply from utilitarianism, which judges policies by their consequences fortotal or average utility. ifone individual prefers xtoyand another has the opposite preferences, then the rst individuals preferences can be represented by a utility functionthat assigns a higher number to xthan to y,and the seconds preferences