p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 15 inuence preferences. in testing a theory, scientists deduce an implication from that theory, conjoined with subsidiary hypotheses and statements of initial conditions. if the implication is not borne out by observation, scien-tists must take risks and decide that the problem lies in the particular theorybeing tested, not in the unavoidable additional premises. inautobiographical comments, popper maintains that what drove him into the philosophy of science was what he calls the problem ofdemarcation: what is the difference between a scientic theory and a the-ory which is not scientic? 19although formulated differently, this was a driving question for the logical positivists, too. they wanted to be able todistinguish scientic theories from meaningless metaphysics and to con-tribute to the further development of science. as stated earlier, the problem of demarcation concerns the distinction between scientic theories and other sorts of theories. but popper is often concerned instead to distinguish thoseattitudes, rules and practices that distinguish a scientic community from other attitudes and practices. what matters is often not the theory, but whatpeople think of it and what they do with it. newtons theory of motioncould become the dogma of some strange sect, while, in contrast, astrol- ogy can be subjected to scientic scrutiny. the more important problem ofdemarcation concerns the difference between the attitudes of scientists andnonscientists, not the difference between scientic theories and other sortsof theories. according to popper, what is special about scientists is that they have acritical attitude. they follow methodological rules directing them to make bold conjectures and then seek out the harshest possible tests of them.these rules require that when the conjectures fail those tests, scientists do notmake excuses. instead they should regard the theories as refuted, and theyshould then propose