p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 33 premises of economics are well established and that these premises are not impugned by the empirical failures of the theory. in fact, the austrians gofurther and argue that the basic premises are ap rioritruths. with the intrusion of the views of the logical positivists in the 1930s came the rst important change in the professions views on the justication ofeconomic theory. in 1938, t erence hutchison published the signicance and basic postulates of economic theory .inthis landmark book, hutchison argues that economics, like other sciences, must formulate testable gener-alizations and subject them to serious tests. the statements of pure the-ory in economics are, hutchison argues, empty denitional truths. claimsin economics are so hedged with ceteris paribus qualications that they are untestable. with the weight of contemporary logical positivism behindhim, hutchison insisted that it was time for economists to start behaving likeresponsible scientists. the development of revealed-preference theory and paul samuelsons defense of what he calls operationalism also supported the demand that economics be recast into testable theories. hutchisons criticisms were immediately rebutted by economists such as knight, but they remained disturbing. could it be that economics did not meet the standards of empirical science? some, such as knight and the aus-trians, were prepared to say that the standards of the natural sciences did not apply to economics. but most writers on economic methodology attemptedtoshow that economics satised the more sophisticated (and weaker) crite- riatowhich the logical positivists had already retreated. 41although milton friedmans well-known essay, the methodology of positive economics (1953; see chapter 7in this anthology) does not refer to contemporary phi- losophy of science, it, too, attempts to show that economics satises broadlypositivist standards. fordecades after its publication, friedmans essay dominated work