p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 343 strategy choices of others by experience. this is why i see no way for game theory to advance independently of experimental (or other) observations.wehave to understand the processes whereby the required conditions of knowledge are satised processes like pre-game play, repeated play, cheaptalk, or the futures market example discussed in a moment before theimplications of those conditions can become testable hypotheses. ithas been observed that if the failure of rational expectations in nite horizon trading experiments was due to the lack of common expectationsabout later periods, then introducing futures markets should hasten con-vergence to rational expectations equilibria by speeding up the process of creating common expectations of later period behavior (porter and smith,1989 ). forsythe, palfrey and plott ( 1982 )had reported that convergence in two-period horizon experiments was hastened by introducing a futuresmarket on period two. if our interpretation was correct, then a futuresmarket on period eight in 15-period asset trading experiments would aidin creating common expectation at mid-horizon (subjects already expecttrading at fundamental value near the end), and price bubbles should be retarded in the presence of such a futures market. porter and smith ( 1989 ) report experiments supporting this hypothesis. the learning suggested by these studies is that the important role of futures markets may be to fos-ter co mmon expectations among traders concerning a future event. this permits the backward induction calculus to yield the appropriate rationalexpe ctations in the current period. dominated strategies are for playing, not eliminating itis commonly argued that dominated strategies should never rationally be played, and thus can be eliminated in game-theoretic analysis. but playersin repeated games do sometimes play dominated strategies and there aresound reasons why. consider the two-person alternating-play