p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 317 foreign trade (and in two other instances in smiths noneconomic works). bernard mandeville, early in the eighteenth century, in the fable of the bees,put the point that private vice (greed) could promote public virtue far more clearly than did smith. but smith took a dim view of mandeville.smith, david ricardo, and the other classical economists were mainly con- cerned with market phenomena, and the individual played a relatively weak analytical and empirical role in their arguments. with marginalism in the middle of the nineteenth century, the analytical ground shifts more clearly to the individual, but market phenomena remain the focus of william stanley jevons and the english political economists. itis in the work of the french economists augustin cournot and leon walrasthat the individual is truly made the analytical center of economics and theproblem of how individuals coordinate socially, usually ascribed to smith,takes center stage. the political philosophy of the late nineteenth century is marked by debates over the relative explanatory role of individualism versus superindi-vidual categories. marxists led the way. for them, classes determine men, rather than men determining classes. (y et, one should note that karl marxs economics owed its analytical framework to smith and ricardo and sowas tainted, at least as far as they went with it, by individualism.) aus-trian economics presented a clear contrast in which carl menger and, in the twentieth century, ludwig von mises, friedrich von hayek, and oth-ers espoused methodological individualism :the doctrine that the only well- grounded explanations of social phenomena were ones that appealed to the actions and behaviors of individuals. english and american economics maintained an incomplete individual- ism. although alfred marshall managed to kill the political that had longmodied economy