p1: jzp 9780521883504c24 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:53 446 tony lawson of mainstream economists. in comparison to the largely a priori unthink- ingly reductionist and scientistic programme perpetrated by mainstreameconomists, then, the project in social theory to which i have contributedcan, i believe, with good reason be identied as realist. hausman, though, appears to be more concerned with any implied con- trasts with other projects explicitly designated methodological. now if it is the case that such methodological projects in economics are concerned toengage in a signicant way in social metaphysics explicitly, these projects, inmy view, warrant being identied explicitly as realist as well. certainly, i take this to be appropriate where any such project is concerned in this manner toconfront and ultimately help transform (and so inevitably be contrasted with) the largely a priori scientistic set of practices that is the contemporary mainstream. moreover, if in the course of such a critical endeavour a def-inite perspective on the nature of nature, science and society were derivedand defended, any such project would equally warrant being identied as aspecic formulation of realism. asit happens, however, i do believe that those projects in modern economics explicitly designated methodological have mostly (with a fewexceptions) also failed to give sufcient attention to questions of ontol- ogy or metaphysics. in the main it is questions of epistemic appraisal(i.e., epistemological questions concerning the rational basis for acceptingor rejecting theories) that have occupied the economic methodology dis-cussion (for discussions see lawson, 1997a ,pp.xiiixvi; fleetwood, 1998, pp. 12735). icannot survey the contributions of these projects here. however, in order toaddress some further rather important issues raised by hausman, and to take the discussion further in the hope of bringing clarity to our differences,imight add at this point that i harbour doubts that even