p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 introd uction 29 econometrics ,which is discussed in chapter 16.e c o n o metrics is a branch of applied statistics as well as a branch of economics. beginning in the 1930s, it was hoped that the claims of economic theorists might be tested and renedwith the help of statistical techniques. since then econometric techniques have become much more sophisticated. exactly what this work means foreconomic theory (as opposed to narrowly focused practical inquiries) iscontroversial, with some prominent economists arguing that econometrics is incapable of providing good reasons to believe or disbelieve any signicantcausal claims. 34 microeconomics, macroeconomics, and econometrics together include most of mainstream economics, although there are of course specic sub-areas such as international trade, labor economics, and so forth. there arealso competing schools of economics, although in most cases they have rela-tively few proponents. a generation ago, there was still a good deal of interestin marxian economics. although marx was heavily inuenced by ricardoswork,hehad a different view of the nature of economics and of its rela- tionship to other social sciences than classical or neoclassical economists have. according to marxs historical materialism (which is sketched in chapter 5), the relations among people in the course of their productive activities are the most fundamental social re lations. relations of production strongly inuence not only other relationships but also the personalities andconsciousness of individuals. in studying economics, one is studying much more than how individuals produce, exchange, and distribute goods andservices; one is also studying how human beings shape the development oftheir species. marxregards capitalism, despite the miseries it may cause (which he meticulously documents), as an enormous step forward for human beings.capitalism relates individuals everywhere to one another through the worldmarket, and it expands