p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 6 introd uction recognize that the ndings of science are subject to revision and correction with the growth and improvement of science. antirealists may be instrumen- talists ,who regard the goals of science as exclusively practical, or antirealists may instead disagree with realists mainly about whether the unobservables postulated by scientic theories exist, whether claims about them are trueor false, and whether observable evidence can establish claims about unob-servables. notice that instrumentalists do not repudiate theorizing. theyagree with realists that theories are important. but they locate their impor-tance exclusively in their role in helping people to anticipate and controlphenomena. in his inuential essay, the methodology of positive eco-nomics reprinted in this anthology, milton friedman espouses a narrowlyinstrumentalist view of science. whoisright, realists or antirealists? there is no settled opinion among philosophers, and the fortunes of realism and instrumentalism have oscil-lated over the past few decades. 1scientists themselves are divided. realism has a rm foothold in many areas (how many people doubt that dna existsor that it carries a genetic code?), but the problems and peculiarities ofquantum mechanics have led many physicists to a modest view of the goalsof science and to an antirealist view of claims about quantum phenomena.foradiscussion of the relevance of realism versus antirealism to economics, see uskali m akis and t ony lawsons essays in part v. someone who hopes that science can discover new truths about the world through its theorizing need not nd theories valueless unless they are true. ptolemys astronomy, which places the earth in the center of the solar system,was used for navigational purposes for centuries after it was refuted. there isno reason why a realist cannot use ptolemys theory to navigate. the realistwants more from science than such