p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 243 and whether such an impossible economy could, as a consequence of an infeasible initial distribution, also result in an equitable distribution ofincome? mainstream economists care. whether opposed to government inter- vention in the economy or in favor of it, mainstream economists typically treat perfectly competitive equilibrium as a benchmark and a moral ideal. although some economists are opposed to government intervention in theeconomy for nonwelfarist reasons such as concerns about individual free-doms or rights, those who seek to limit the role of government usuallymaintain that freeing the economy from government meddling best approx-imates perfect competition with its pareto efciency. those who, in contrast,favor government intervention in the economy do so because they believethat government can address some of the failures of actual markets, wherethese failures are identied against the id eal standard of perfect competition. defenders of government interference with the market are just as impressedwith the claims of perfect competition as are opponents, and they are both wrong to be so impressed. 7. potential pareto improvements and cost-benet analysis asunjustiable as this fascination with perfect competition may be, it is easy tounderstand, because concern with competitive equilibrium is so central to positive economic theory, and because normative economists would have solittle to say if they conned themselves to endorsing specic pareto improve-ments. the only other path has been to nd some way of comparing policieswhen none is pareto superior to the others. kaldor ( 1939 )and hicks ( 1939 ) had the following thought: consider two economic outcomes or states ofaffairs xand y.there are many different moral comparisons people might make of them. one morally signicant difference between xand ymay be distributional, as in the case of