p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 the philosophical foundations of mainstream normative economics 227 and handled with care. economics has done harm mainly because it has been misunderstood or misused by political and economic interests. there is littlethat philosophers or economists can do to combat powerful interests whoare ready to exploit any theory economic, political, even philosophical torationalize their ambition and greed. but philosophers and economists can clarify the interpretation of economic theory and thereby remove confu-sions and make its ideological misapplication at least a little bit more difcult.suchis the objective of this essay with respect to mainstream normative eco- nomics. our hope is that an understanding of the contestable assumptionsupon which normative economists rely can help prevent people from beingbuffaloed by condent proclamations of economic wisdom. 1. a notorious example letusbegin with a notorious example to illustrate the central features of normative economics and to show why an inquiry into its philosophicalfoundations is needed. in december 1991, lawrence summers, then the chiefeconomist at the world bank, sent a memorandum to colleagues containingthe following remarks: just between you and me, shouldnt the world bank be encouraging more migration of the dirty industries to the ldcs [less developed countries]? i can think of threereasons: (1) the measurement of the costs of health-impairing pollution depends on the foregone earnings from increased morbidity and mortality. from this pointof view a given amount of health-impairing pollution should be done inthe country with the lowest cost, which will be the country with the lowestwages. ... (2)...ive always thought that under-populated countries in africa are vastly under polluted; their air quality is probably vastly inefciently [high] com- pared to los angeles or mexico city. only the lamentable facts that so muchpollution is generated by non-tradable industries (transport, electrical