p1: jzp 9780521883504c26 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 19:37 credible worlds 485 instances in which the development of a theory intended for one applica- tion has generated results which have later proved to be useful in completelydifferent domains. (think how much has grown out of john von neumannand oskar morgensterns exploration of strategies for playing poker.) thus,tocharacterize akerlofs and schellings models as conceptual exploration need not be to denigrate them. so let us consider what we would learn from these models if we interpreted them as conceptual exploration and nothing else. take akerlof rst. akerlofscontribution, it might be said, is to show that some implications of the stan- dard behavioural assumptions of economic theory are highly sensitive tothe particular simplifying assumptions that are made about knowledge. 8 morespecically, the usual results about pareto-efcient, market-clearing equilibrium trade can be radically altered if, instead of assuming that buyersand sellers are equally well-informed, weallow some degree of asymmetry of information. the message of akerlofs paper, then, is that some commonly-invoked theoretical propositions about markets are not as robust as waspreviously thought. thus, conclusions derived from models which assumesymmetric information should be treated with caution, and new theoriesneed to be developed which take account of the effects of asymmetric infor-mation. on this reading, the discussion of used cars is no more than a storyattached to a formal model, useful in aiding exposition and comprehension,but which can be dispensed with if necessary. 9the paper is not about used cars: it is about the theory of markets. what about schelling? we might say that schelling is presenting a cri- tique of a commonly-held view that segregation must be the product eitherof deliberate public policy or of strong ly segregationist preferences. the checkerboard model is a counter-example to these claims: it shows