p1: jzp 9780521883504c19 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:39 372 colin f. camerer foundations of inequality-aversion or social image, and so forth). a more unifying approach is to take the revealed-preference model seriously andsee how far its language can be stretched to accommodate neural evidence,while making new predictions rather than just giving economic names toneural processes. 6. afterword and prologue: the mindless critique, and a reply from the past some economists feel that the central theory in economics revelation ofinherently unobservable preferences and beliefs by observed choices isimmune to empirical evidence from neuroeconomics. their argument isthat economics is only about explaining choices, and neural evidence is notchoices. for example, gul and pesendorfer (2005) suggest one categorisation of economics (which could be called economics tm,because they so sharply legislate what economics is and is not). they write7 ...the requirement that economictmtheories simultaneously account for economictmdata and brain imaging data places an unreasonable burden on economictmtheories (gul and pesendorfer, 2005) some of the examples in sections 3 and 4 were judiciously chosen to address precisely this critique. theories of time discounting and non- linear (p) probability weighting can account for both behavioural data from many choice experiments (and many eld data too) andare consistent with tentative evidence of neural activity. since such theories are possible, is it really an unreasonable burden to ask whether other theories can dothe same? of course, theories that spring from the fertile mind of a theoristwho is simply inspired by psychology, but is not beholden to a large bodyof facts, could prove to be useful theories too. but theories that can explainneural facts and choices should have some advantage over theories which explain only choices, if they are comparably tractable. morefundamentally, the argument against neuroeconomics (or the case for mindless economics, as