p1: jzp 9780521883504c15 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:9 280 amartya sen possible approach to poverty, and i shall comment on the relation of this strategy to more traditional income-focused analyses of poverty. but it isalso important to recognize that the use of the capability approach is notconned to basic capabilities only. 33 turning to poverty analysis, identifying a minimal combination of basic capabilities can be a good way of setting up the problem of diagnosingand measuring poverty. it can lead to results quite different from thoseobtained by concentrating on the inadequacy of income as the criterion ofidentifying the poor. 34the conversion of income into basic capabilities may vary greatly between individuals and also between different societies, so thatthe ability to reach minimally acceptable levels of basic capabilities can gowith varying levels of minimally adequate incomes. the income-centred view of poverty, based on specifying an interpersonally invariant poverty line income, may be very misleading in the identication and evaluation ofpoverty. however,the point is sometimes made that poverty must, in some sense, be a matter of inadequacy of income, rather than a failure of capabilities,and this might suggest that the capability approach to poverty is essentiallywrong-headed . this objection overl ooks both the motivational underpin- ning of poverty analysis and the close correspondence between capabilityfailure and income inadequacy when the latter is dened taking note ofparametric variations in income-capability relations. since income is not desired for its own sake, any income-based notion of poverty must refer directly or indirectly to those basic ends whichare promoted by income as means. indeed, in poverty studies related toless developed countries, the poverty line income is often derived explicitlywith reference to nutritional norms. once it is recognized that the relation between income and capabilities varies between communities and betweenpeople in