p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 does macroeconomics need microfoundations? 327 homothetic; that is, its indifference curves are each parallel blowups of the indifference curves closer to the origin. equivalently, the income-expansionpaths (that is, the locus of tangencies between indifference curves and budgetconstraints as the budget constraint is moved outward to reect increasing income and constant relative prices) are all straight lines through the origin.andthis is what the theorists tells us: some technical details and caveats toone side, perfect aggregation from individual agents to a representative agent requires that all agents have identical utility functions and that thesebe homothetic. why? because in these cases, income distribution is notrelevant. because of homotheticity, the ratios of goods consumed by any one individual remain the same whether that individual is rich or poor. andbecause utility functions are identical, the ratios of goods consumed are thesame for any individual. in such circumstances, for a xed aggregate income,redistributing that income among the individual consumers will not affect demands for individual goods and, therefore, will not affect relative prices.inthat case, the conditions of hickss composite commodity theorem apply, and we can add up individual quantities to form economy-wide aggregateswithout loss of information. although the example that we have looked at is extremely simple, it carries a very general message. the conditions of exact aggregation arestrong and almost certainly never fullled in any practical instance. whyshould one accept the representative-agent model and the facile analogyfrom the micro to the macro? indeed, recently, a number of economists rolfmantel, hugo sonnenschein, and debreu have shown that theoretically there is no such analogy. 16nomatter how well behaved the microeconomic functions may be, the aggregate functions, given distributional variations,are essentially unrestricted and need not take a form that is derivable in anysimple way