p1: jzp 9780521883504c16 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:5 306 kevin d .h oover theories. the strength of weak apriorism is precisely that it recognizes the need for such interplay. econometrics as observation the strong apriorist sets a formidable task for empirical economics. the titleof koopmanss attack on atheoretical economics suggests that econometrics,following a strict reading of its etymology, is concerned with the directmeasurement of structures suggested by economic theory to be replicasof economic reality. but such a task is, as the weak apriorist suggests, notpracticable unless we already have a good idea of what constraints realityplaces on the structures that we wish to measure. measurement requiresprior theory; equally, theory requires prior measurement. that this circle seems vicious is the result of the apriorist failing to observe acritical distinction. haavelmo distinguishes between autonomous relations, which are invariant to a wide range of interventions, and (adapting a termfrom ragnar frisch) conuent relations, which are the result of (complex) interactions of autonomous relations. conuent relations may appear sta-ble until subjected to interventions. haavelmos autonomous relations areessentially the same as what the econometricians hendry and richard ( 1982 ) call the data-generating process :that is, the true, but unknown and unob- servable description of how the data came to take on particular values. drawing this distinction forces us to recognize that only on the mer- est chance would we estimate a relation structurally identical to the data-generating process. only on such a chance would we directly measure theunderlying reality. and, what is more, since nothing in our estimate certiesits truthlikeness, we would never be completely sure that we had estimatedthe data-generating process. in general, we must assume that we estimateconuent relations. regressions and other econometric results are, rst and foremost, cal- culations, summaries of observable data. economists customarily