p1: jzp 9780521883504c21 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:26 what is the essence of institutional economics? 403 still later, leading neoclassical general equilibrium theorists kenneth arrowand frank hahn declared their sympathies for various interven- tionist and social-democratic economic policies. indeed, hahn and othershave attempted to justify the whole general equilibrium theoretical projectas an attempt to demonstrate the limits of the market mechanism. even more recently, alleged marxists such as jon elster and john roe- mer have explicitly embraced neoclassical tools of economic analysis, whileretaining leftist political credentials. true, there are many conservative and pro-market neoclassical economists. but neoclassical theory spans the con-ventional political spectrum from the extreme pro-planning left to the extreme pro-market right and thus is not denable in terms of the policy stances of its adherents. can institutionalism be dened, in part, in terms of a concern for greater equality and wealth? institutionalists do not have a monopoly on egalitariansentiments. and there is nothing in the core of neoclassical theory thatnecessarily leads us to inegalitarian conclusions. indeed, in the early part of the twentieth century, some economists saw neoclassical utility theory as supporting the policy prescription of incomeredistribution and greater equality. if individuals have a diminishing mar- ginal cardinal utility of income, then making incomes more equal may increase overall utility. however, these egalitarian policies did not nd ideo-logical favor among many neoclassical economists; they adopted the paretocriterion instead. a policy of taking from the rich and giving to the poor isnot pareto efcient. with this auxiliary assumption, the policy conclusionsof neoclassical welfare theory were changed from egalitarian to conserva-tive. the core presuppositions of neoclassical theory are in fact enormouslyexible in policy terms, depending upon which auxiliary assumptions arechosen. true, neoclassical theory is based on the idea of the given individual. and the