p1: jzp 9780521883504int cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:14 28 introd uction commodities and encourage investment and in that way move the economy out of its unemployment equilibrium. despite keyness inuence, his work did not shake the fundamentals of neoclassical theory. initially, neoclassical theory instead divided into microe- conomics, on the one hand, which is concerned with individuals, rms, and industries, and macroeconomics, on the other hand, which is con-cerned with aggregate demand and the performance of the economy as a whole. although vestiges of this bifurcation persist, there ought, one wouldthink, to be important connections between microeconomics and macroe-conomics, and most economists nowadays insist on relating macroeconomic theories to stylized microeconomic foundations. for further discussion, seechapter 17. inthe 1970s and 1980s, keynesian economics was seriously challenged. notonly was it ill-suited to deal with the simultaneous ination and unem- ployment of the 1970s, but economists grew increasingly impatient withthe gap between micro- and macroeconomics and increasingly enamoredof microeconomics. unlike previous economists who made use of keyne-sian macroeconomics while hoping to reconcile it with microeconomics,members of the so-called new classical school refused to employ any mod-els that did not at least purport to derive from microeconomics or generalequilibrium theory. some, such as robert lucas, even went so far as to denyon the basis of microeconomic considerations that there was such a thing asinvoluntary unemployment, 32and lucas and others argued that the ratio- nal expectations of economic agents tend to undermine the effectiveness ofmonetary and scal policy as tools to manage the economy. itis hard to say whether the new classical research program has triumphed or failed. on the one hand, its econometric predictions were no improve-ment over its predecessors, and the experience of the 1990s made it hard tobelieve that policy (especially monetar ypolicy) had only