p1: jzp 9780521883504c17 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:57 324 kevin d .h oover time-series models, such as one that says that future interest rates will be the average of past interest rates). but this means that i cannot completelyreduce macroeconomics to microeconomics. microeconomics of the real world necessarily uses macroeconomic models and concepts as an input. the macroeconomy supervenes on the microeconomy but is not reducibletoit. aggregation and the illusion of a microeconomic ontology while i am convinced that the impulse that made the microfoundational argument succeed is ontological and not methodological, it would be absurdnot to acknowledge the methodological sea change in macroeconomics afterthe lucas critique. macroeconomic models look like microeconomic models(hence the reaction that my use of pissaridess model provoked among mycolleagues). the same techniques, the same mathematics, the same language is used. but this is truly puzzling. the physicist who has successfully reducedthe ideal gas laws to the kinetic theory of gases does not then abandon thelanguage of pressure, temperature, and volume when working with gases ortrytouse momentum, mass, and velocity as the principal phenomenological categories for discussing the macroscopic behavior of gases. buteconomists have taken a different tack. they have typically started with the microeconomics of the individual and then asked to what degree the lessons learned at that level can still apply to aggregates of individuals.there is, in consequence, a vast literature on the theory of aggregation. thegeneral conclusion of this literature is that aggregation in which the macrolooks like the micro can occur only under circumstances so stringent thatthey could never be fullled in the real world except by the merest chance.iwant to argue something even stronger than that; namely, that even what appears to be perfect aggregatio nunder ideal circumstances fails. but, rst, let us consider the