p1: jzp 9780521883504c13 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:15 240 daniel m. hausman and michael s. mcpherson ifthe preferences of individuals satisfy the stronger axioms of expected utility theory, then it is possible to represent them with utility functions in which utility sums and differences are not arbitrary.6ifone had, in addition, some way to compare the utilities of different individuals, then the waywould be cleared to formulate a utilitarian welfare economics. but what sense can one make of comparisons of the extent to which the preferencesof different individuals are satised? economists have stressed the problemsof getting evidence concerning interpersonal comparisons of preferencesatisfaction, while we would stress the problems of even making senseof such comparisons (see hausman 1995 ). in any case, such comparisons are highly problematic, and positive economics makes no use of them. so it is easytosee why normative economists have been hesitant to make interpersonal utility comparisons. denying the possibility of making interpersonal welfare comparisons largely determines the character of mainstream (normative) economics.itundercuts any hope of developing a general ethical theory, such as util- itarianism, that can encompass other dimensions of moral appraisal, suchas freedom, rights, equality, and justice, because all of these are concernedwith the differing weights of claims of different persons, which cannot be addressed within a welfarist framework unless one can make interpersonalcomparisons. few economists have the temerity to follow bentham and to condemn all other moral considerations as rhetorical nonsense nonsense upon stilts. so some strategy is inevitable whereby economists appraisepolicies, outcomes, and institutions other things being equal or alongjust one among several moral dimensions. the idea that there is, thus, a specically economic dimension of eval- uation determines the character of mainstream normative economics. it isthis idea that makes it possible to envision a normative economic theory ,