p1: jzp 9780521883504c18 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 20:43 economics in the laboratory 349 auxiliary hypotheses. conversely, every observational victory for a theory can be questioned by a suitable revision of the background knowledge inwhich the theory is embedded. t his thesis denies the possibility of direct falsication of any specic testable implication of a theory (and, in its strongform, denies rational rules of selection). myview is that some philosophers have exaggerated the signicance of the duhem-quine problem, while experimentalists may be unaware of itspower in inuencing their day-to-day activities. experimental economistsare intuitively if not formally aware of the problem; this is why they do somany experiments probing the sources of a theorys failure, or success, as inthe ultimatum game and other examples discussed above. if you have a con-founding problem with auxiliary hypotheses, then you do new experimentstotest them. if the auxiliary hypotheses are not testable, this is preeminently your critics problem. arecent exchange among experimentalists in the december 1992 amer- ican economic review is squarely reective of the duhem-quine problem. harr ison ( 1992 )has questioned all falsifying obse rvations in experimental economics as due to a postulated low opportunity cost of deviating fromtheoretical optimality. this thesis sets the stage for the convenient nihilistbelief that all recalcitrant observations must be due to inadequate payoffopportunity cost. (of course, this argument raises the unanswered questionof why there exist validating results with low opportunity cost). but, likemost important instances of duhem-quine, the proposition can be and hasbeen tested in this case many times over the last 30-odd years (smith andwalker, 1993 ,o f f e rar eview). 7the results have made it plain that money does matter; that factors besides money also matter; that many anomalies do notdisappear by escalating payoffs (and foregone prots); and that