p1: jzp 9780521883504c14 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:12 fourteen whyiscost-benet analysis so controversial? robert h. frank robert h. frank (1945 ) holds a b.s. in math from georgia institute of t echnology and an m.a. in statistics and a ph.d. in economics from university of california,berkeley. since serving as a peace corps volunteer in nepal, he has been an economicsprofessor at cornell university. his economic scene column appears monthly inthenewyork times .his work at the intersection of economics and ethics has focused on moral emotions and concerns about relative position. overview the cost-benet principle says we should take those actions, and only those actions, whose benets exceed their costs. for many, this principles com-monsensical ring makes it hard to imagine how anyone could disagree. y etcritics of cost-benet analysis are both numerous and outspoken. many ofthem argue that cost-benet analysis is unacceptable as a matter of princi-ple. i begin by noting why many nd this argument largely unpersuasive. ithen examine several conventions adopted by cost-benet analysts that doappear to yield misleading prescriptions. finally, i consider the possibilitythat the cost-benet principle may itself suggest why we might not alwayswant to employ cost-benet analysis as the explicit rationale for our actions. the incommensurability problem the cost-benet principle says we should install a guardrail on a dangerousstretch of mountain road if the dollar cost of doing so is less than the implicit henrietta johnson louis professor of management and professor of economics, cornell uni- versity, johnson graduate school of management. this paper was prepared for presentation at the university of chicago law school conference cost-benet analysis, september 1718,1999. i thank william schulze for helpful discussions. journal of legal studies ,vol. 29 (2000): 91330. copyright c circlecopyrt2000 by the university of chicago. reproduced by permission of the university