p1: jzp 9780521883504c10 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 21:23 popper and lakatos in economic methodology 195 empirical record. for weintraubs neo-walrasian programme the protec- tive belt includes almost all of applied microeconomics. aresearch programme is appraised on the basis of the theoretical and empirical activity in the protective belt. there is theoretical progress if each change in the protective belt is empirical content increasing; that is if it predicts novel facts .14the research programme exhibits empirical progress if this excess empirical content actually gets corroborated (lakatos 1970 : 118). lakatos also requires a third type of progress, heuristic progress (non-ad hoc 3ness), which species that the changes be consistent with the hard coreof the programme. lakatoss denitions of theoretical and empirical progress presuppose that the changes in question are consistent with heuris-tic progress. one obvious example of the link between lakatos and popper is the way in which lakatos characterizes empirical content and novel facts. lakatos,like popper, denes the empirical content of a theory to be the set of itspotential falsiers: the set of those o bservational propositions which may disprove it (lakatos 1970 :98, n. 2). thus, even though lakatos considers empirical progress to come through empirical corroboration rather thanfalsication, his characterization of the relationship between theory andfact is still basically falsicationist. there are many other signs of lakatosspopperian lineage but his denition of empirical content and novel facts are the most important in the appraisal of lakatosian economic method-ology. on the other hand, there are many aspects of the msrp which are fun- damentally at odds with popperian falsicationism. the most signicant ofthese is the immunity of the hard core to empirical criticism; immunizingany part of scientic theory would be in conict with poppers falsica-tionist method of bold conjecture and severe test. popper