p1: jzp 9780521883504c07 cufx202 hausman 978 0 521 88350 4 november 1, 2007 22:0 the methodology of positive economics 151 at best one of degree. no experiment can be completely controlled, and every experience is partly controlled, in the sense that some disturbing inuences are relatively constant in the course of it. evidence cast up by experience is abundant and frequently as conclusive as that from contrived experiments; thus the inability to conduct experi-ments is not a fundamental obstacle to testing hypotheses by the successof their predictions. but such evidence is far more difcult to interpret. itis frequently complex and always indirect and incomplete. its collection isoften arduous, and its interpretation generally requires subtle analysis andinvolved chains of reasoning, which seldom carry real conviction. the denialtoeconomics of the dramatic and direct evidence of the crucial experi- ment does hinder the adequate testing of hypotheses; but this is much lesssignicant than the difculty it places in the way of achieving a reasonablyprompt and wide consensus on the conclusions justied by the availableevidence. it renders the weeding-out of unsuccessful hypotheses slow and difcult. they are seldom downed for good and are always cropping upagain. there is, of course, considerable variation in these respects. occasionally, experience casts up evidence that is about as direct, dramatic, and convinc- ing as any that could be provided by controlled experiments. perhaps themost obviously important example is the evidence from inations on thehypothesis that a substantial increase in the quantity of money within a rel- atively short period is accompanied by a substantial increase in prices. herethe evidence is dramatic, and the chain of reasoning required to interpretit is relatively short. y et, despite numerous instances of substantial rises inprices, their essentially one-to-one correspondence with substantial risesin the stock of money, and the wide variation in other