in-training defenses against emergent misalignment in language models david kacz er1,2, magnus jrgenv ag1, clemens vetter1, lucie flek1,2, florian mai1,2 1bonn-aachen international center for information technology, university of bonn, germany 2lamarr institute for ml and ai, north rhine-westphalia, germany dkaczer bit.uni-bonn.de, fmai bit.uni-bonn.de abstract fine-tuning lets practitioners repurpose aligned large lan- guage models (llms) for new domains, yet recent work reveals emergent misalignment (ema): even a small, domain-specific fine-tune can induce harmful behaviors far outside the target domain. even in the case where model weights are hidden behind a fine-tuning api, this gives at- tackers inadvertent access to a broadly misaligned model in a way that can be hard to detect from the fine-tuning data alone. we present the first systematic study of in-training safeguards against ema that are practical for providers who expose fine-tuning via an api. we investigate four training regularization interventions: (i) kl-divergence regularization toward a safe reference model, (ii) 2distance in feature space, (iii) projecting onto a safe subspace (safelora), and (iv) interleaving of a small amount of safe training exam- ples from a general instruct-tuning dataset. we first evaluate the methods emergent misalignment effect across four mali- cious , ema-inducing tasks. second, we assess the methods impacts on benign tasks. we conclude with a discussion of open questions in emergent misalignment research. 1 introduction after the initial pretraining phase, large language models (llms) typically exhibit erratic behavior that is often con- sidered unsafe to use by end users. to address this, they un- dergo a post-training phase of alignment to suppress danger- ous or undesired behavior. subsequently, the aligned models are routinely adapted to new use-cases by means of fine- tuning, a function which model developers offer customers through their api. however, recently betley et al. (2025) discovered a new phenomenon called emergent misalign- ment