children 2025 ,12, 1078 8 of 12 4. discussion this review highlights the effect of anime on children with autism spectrum disorder (asd), involving a complex interaction of cognitive, social, and emotional factors. the ability of anime to promote social contact and communication is one of its main advantages. girls with asd can better understand facial expressions and interpersonal dynamics thanks to animes structured narratives and exaggerated emotional responses. engaging in anime fandom communities can also help people feel like they belong [ 6]. given the difficulty of people with more severe asd traits in identifying emotions, anime may act as a facilitator since their response to emotional signaling improves with exposure to stimuli such as cartoons [ 11]. instead of fostering the development of real-world skills, an over-reliance on anime-based interactions may lead to social withdrawal [ 6]. after all, girls with asd might simply resort to it as a means for entertainment and leisure rather than for the growth of their social skills [ 12]. despite promising insights, most reviewed studies suffer from methodological limitations, including small sample sizes, cross-sectional designs, and a lack of longitudinal follow-up. furthermore, cultural homogeneity in many samples may obscure cross-cultural variations in media interpretation and use. on the other hand, anime also contributes to emotional control and identity formation. characters that deal with self-discovery and resilience are relatable to many girls with asd, which helps increase confidence and self-awareness [ 4]. over-reliance on fictitious relationships, however, might create false expectations for social interactions and hinder real-world coping methods [ 8]. regarding the cognitive perspective, anime offers complex storylines and cultural depth, which enhance analytical thinking, language skills and creativity. drawing, writing, and cosplay are examples of anime-related activities that can be effective means of expressing oneself [ 5]. however, an overemphasis on