could potentially support emotion recognition, social skill development, and identity formation for individuals with asd across genders. at the same time, risks like overconsumption of media and potential misinterpretation of emotions are common challenges. because of this, it is important to promote a balanced and mindful approach to anime consumption, with guidance tailored to individual needs. such an approach can help maximize the possible positive impact of anime both in therapeutic settings and everyday life for people with asd. future interdisciplinary research is suggested to prioritize mixed-methods designs, integrating both qualitative and quantitative approaches to capture the nuanced impacts of anime on children with asd. longitudinal studies are essential to understand the long-term effects on identity, emotional development, and real-world social functioning. furthermore, cross-cultural comparisons will help account for the global nature of anime consumption and its differing social meanings. collaboration between clinicians, educators, psychologists, and media scholars is recommended to develop evidence-based media guidelines tailored to neurodivergent youth. author contributions: conceptualization, e.t. and e.p .; methodology, m.t. (maria tsouka) and s.o.; validation, s.o., e.p . and e.t.; formal analysis, m.t. (maria tsouka) and a.k.; investigation, e.t. and e.p .; resources, m.t. (maria tsouka); data curation, a.k.; writingoriginal draft preparation, m.t. (maria tsouka) and e.p .; writingreview and editing, e.p ., m.t. (maria tsolia) and e.t.; visualization, s.o.; supervision, m.t. (maria tsolia); project administration, a.k. all authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. funding: this research received no external funding. institutional review board statement: not applicable. informed consent statement: not applicable. data availability statement: no new data were created or analyzed in this study. conflicts of interest: the authors declare no conflicts of interest.