children 2025 ,12, 1078 7 of 12 cope with social difficulties, it may also lead to increased social withdrawal by reducing opportunities for face-to-face interactions. this pattern is similar to what has been observed in girls with asd. therefore, it is important to monitor and balance media use to prevent negative impacts on social development, while still recognizing the positive role that media can play. 3.3. recent insights into media engagement, social camouflaging, and mental health a recent study has explored the complex relationships between media engagement, social camouflaging, and mental health outcomes in people with asd. kuo et al., 2024 conducted a study on creators involved in anime, comics, and games (acg) who self- identified with high levels of asd traits [ 13]. they found links between intense media engagement, efforts to mask characteristics associated with asd (a process called social camouflaging), and various mental health challenges [ 13]. although the study included participants of all genders, it highlights how anime and related media can be both a source of identity and belonging but also a coping mechanism that may sometimes lead to stress or psychological difficulties. this complexity underscores the need to carefully consider how individuals with asd use media and how it fits into their broader emotional and social experiences. 3.4. parental interactions and early social skills emerging evidence is beginning to place greater emphasis on the role of parental involvement in supporting the social development of children with autism spectrum disorder (asd). specifically, one study examined how both dyadic (parentchild)and triadic (parentchildobject)interactions affected preschool-aged boys with asd and found that these interactions had a significant positive impact on early social skill acquisition [ 20]. this suggests that while animated content like anime can be engaging and potentially therapeutic, its effectiveness might be enhanced when paired with