children 2025 ,12, 1078 4 of 12 table 1. cont . study no. author(s) main focus category subthemes 20 oppenheim et al., 2025 [20] socialsocial skills and parental interaction 21 heffler et al., 2022 [21] social screen time and engagement 22 georgiou et al., 2024 [22] cognitive misinformation susceptibility 23 van schalkwyk et al., 2017 [23] social emotional friendship quality, anxiety table legend: social: interpersonal interaction, friendships, social media use, masking camouflaging. emo- tional: emotion recognition, anxiety, mental health outcomes. cognitive: diagnostic interpretation, media comprehension, misinformation engagement. inclusion criteria involved studies focusing on individuals (boys and girls) diagnosed on the autism spectrum, in the english language, and studying the effects of anime on social relationships, emotional responsiveness, and cognitive abilities. studies concerning the general neurotypical population were excluded. the collected data addressing anime consumptions influence on boys and girls with asd underwent preliminary categoriza- tion and then were further analyzed until we arrived at several main categories: social interaction and communication, emotional regulation and identity formation, cognitive stimulation and creativity, mental health considerations, enhanced emotion recognition through animated stimuli, therapeutic applications of anime and animated narratives, concerns about media overconsumption and social withdrawal, recent insights into media engagement, social camouflaging, and mental health, parental interactions and early social skills, a balanced approach to reducing screen time, media influence and susceptibility to misinformation, social media, friendship, and anxiety. 3. results 3.1. effects of anime consumption on girls with asd 3.1.1. social interaction and communication difficulties in social interaction represent a core challenge for individuals with asd [ 5]. anime offers structured and predictable social exchanges that may assist girls with asd in decoding emotions, facial expressions, and interpersonal dynamics. many anime se- ries explicitly convey character emotions through exaggerated expressions and visual cues, potentially facilitating social learning. moreover, participation in anime-related